KEP-3998: Job success/completion policy (#4062)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-apps/3998-job-success-completion-policy/README.md

- [Flux Operator](https://flux-framework.org/flux-operator/)

### Goals

<!--
List the specific goals of the KEP. What is it trying to achieve? How will we
know that this has succeeded?
-->

- allow to mark a job as a `Succeeded` even if some of the indexes fail.

### Non-Goals

<!--
What is out of scope for this KEP? Listing non-goals helps to focus discussion
and make progress.
-->

- Change the existing behavior of `NonIndexed` mode.
- Change the existing behavior of `Indexed` mode without a SuccessfulPolicy.

## Proposal

<!--
This is where we get down to the specifics of what the proposal actually is.
This should have enough detail that reviewers can understand exactly what
you're proposing, but should not include things like API designs or
implementation. What is the desired outcome and how do we measure success?.
The "Design Details" section below is for the real
nitty-gritty.
-->

We propose new policies under which a job can be declared as succeeded.
Those policies can be modeled in the following:

1. An indexed job completes if a set of [x, y, z...] indexes are successful.
2. An indexed job completes if x or x% of indexes are successful.

> ### User Stories (Optional)

Author: @vsoch Could you check if these user stories matched your cases?

Reviewer: My use case is the first, where there is only one in the set.

Author: Thanks for checking!

<!--
Detail the things that people will be able to do if this KEP is implemented.
Include as much detail as possible so that people can understand the "how" of
the system. The goal here is to make this feel real for users without getting
bogged down.
-->

#### Story 1

As a machine-learning researcher, I run a indexed job which drivers (leaders) are launched

> as index=0,1,2, and workers are launched as non index=0,1,2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as index=0,1,2, and workers are launched as index=3+.
```

Author: done.

-->

### Risks and Mitigations

<!--
What are the risks of this proposal, and how do we mitigate? Think broadly.
For example, consider both security and how this will impact the larger
Kubernetes ecosystem.

How will security be reviewed, and by whom?

How will UX be reviewed, and by whom?

Consider including folks who also work outside the SIG or subproject.
-->

#### Incorrect `.status.completedIndexes`

If the job object's size reaches to limit of the etcd and
the job controller can't store a correct value in `.status.completedIndexes`,
we probably can not evaluate the SuccessfulPolicy correctly.

#### The Job object too big

If we allow users to set all indexes (`0~10^5`) to `.spec.successfulPolicy.requiredIndexes`
and don't limit the number of list sizes, there are cases that the size of a job object is too big.  

In the worst case, allowed all indexes (`0~10^5`) are added to requiredIndexes.
In that case, a `requiredIndexes` size is `SUM[9*10^n*(n+1)]+2+6≈5.6656MiB`, where:
- `n` starts from `0` and goes up to `5`.
- `1` of `n+1` means a separator that indicates `,`.
- `2` is the sum of the index `0` and `,`.

> - `6` is the size of indexes `10^5`.

Author: @alculquicondor @mimowo 
This risk is similar to #3996. Do we need to change `requiredIndex` from `[]int` typed to `string` typed and then use the same format with [`.status.completedIndexes`](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/93ec57734fbb97b33d6060af834a1dfe045fd914/pkg/apis/batch/types.go#L390-L397)?

Or, it might be better to keep using `[]int` typed and limit the list sizes since `requiredIndexes` is modified by end-users.

wdyt?

Author: A general driver-worker setup is the latter. I'm fine with having `min` and `max`.

@vsoch Do you have the former scenarios (index 1, 3, 7 to finish)?

Author: If any others don't have the former scenarios, I will move the current design and risks to the alternative section.

Reviewer: I do not, but theoretically we could in the future with the Flux Operator if we allow for a more complex topology that launches more than one parent at the top level (and thus successful completion would rely on that set of parents). So I'm +1 to have the success case allow a set, where the set is allowed to be one or more. @alculquicondor's suggestion makes sense, but it might be a more confusing interaction for this case of having just one, and (in the future) would be limiting in allowing for more unique descriptions. Perhaps you could instead do what we do for hostnames, and allow for a set, and allow the set to include ranges? E.g.,:

```yaml
# The Flux Operator current design - we are done when index 0 is done.
requiredIndexesInterval: [0]

# A more complex topology that has several parents, in a range, flux-sample-0, flux-sample-1, and flux-sample-2
requiredIndexesInterval: [0-2]

# A more complex topology that has several parents, but not in a range flux-sample-0, flux-sample-5, flux-sample-10
requiredIndexesInterval: [0,5,10]

# The same, but with a combination of one off and ranges
requiredIndexesInterval: [0-2,5,10]
```
For the third, I think this could be something that happens if there is some third variable like topology that we want to map lead brokers to. E.g., imagine that you have 100 pods, each assigned to one node for simplicity, and the topology chosen (if possible) says "put indices that are physically closer together also numerically close." In this case you'd maybe not want parents to be 0-3, but to spread out the leaders to reflect that design.

And finally, looking at the above you might need to allow string OR int and then parse appropriately. At least for config files for Flux and Slurm that syntax (without additional string declaration) would be allowed.

Author: Currently, we use the format in `.status.completedIndexes`:
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/93ec57734fbb97b33d6060af834a1dfe045fd914/pkg/apis/batch/types.go#L390-L397

> For the third, I think this could be something that happens if there is some third variable like topology that we want to map lead brokers to. 

@vsoch Why do you use discrete values? Can we use `[0-3]`, and then put each leader at different topologies?

slurm topology example: https://slurm.schedmd.com/topology.html

Author: Thanks for the great clarifications.

> if it's easier to manually control topology, the range should be fine here (but I am skeptical of this claim)

I believe that we can use Inter-pod anti-affinity based on the `batch.kubernetes.io/job-completion-index` label.

https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#inter-pod-affinity-and-anti-affinity

https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/117986

However, the label will be added to pods since v1.28. So the label isn't added to pods in v1.27.

```yaml
...
spec:
  completions: 10
  parallelism: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  template:
    spec:
      affinity:
        podAntiAffinity:
          requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
          - labelSelector:
              matchExpressions:
              - key: batch.kubernetes.io/job-completion-index
                operator: In
                values: ["0", "1", "2"] // leaders
            topologyKey: topology.kubernetes.io/zone
...
```

Author: > But since we already have precedent with completedIndexes, using the compressed format should be good. However, I would add validation to limit the size of the field to up to 64Ki or 100Ki (more than plenty, IMHO)

I'm ok with the compressed format and the validation.

Author: Anyway, I will update the API design.

Author: Done.

  - [ ] (R) Minimum Two Week Window for GA e2e tests to prove flake free
- [ ] (R) Graduation criteria is in place
  - [ ] (R) [all GA Endpoints](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/1806) must be hit by [Conformance Tests](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/conformance-tests.md) 
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review completed
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review approved
- [ ] "Implementation History" section is up-to-date for milestone
- [ ] User-facing documentation has been created in [kubernetes/website], for publication to [kubernetes.io]
- [ ] Supporting documentation—e.g., additional design documents, links to mailing list discussions/SIG meetings, relevant PRs/issues, release notes

<!--
**Note:** This checklist is iterative and should be reviewed and updated every time this enhancement is being considered for a milestone.
-->

[kubernetes.io]: https://kubernetes.io/
[kubernetes/enhancements]: https://git.k8s.io/enhancements
[kubernetes/kubernetes]: https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes
[kubernetes/website]: https://git.k8s.io/website

## Summary

> <!--

Reviewer 3: Could you remove some of the comments once you are finished with section? Less lines to review.

Author: That's right! I will remove unneeded comments!

Author: done.

This section is incredibly important for producing high-quality, user-focused
documentation such as release notes or a development roadmap. It should be
possible to collect this information before implementation begins, in order to
avoid requiring implementors to split their attention between writing release
notes and implementing the feature itself. KEP editors and SIG Docs
should help to ensure that the tone and content of the `Summary` section is
useful for a wide audience.

A good summary is probably at least a paragraph in length.

Both in this section and below, follow the guidelines of the [documentation
style guide]. In particular, wrap lines to a reasonable length, to make it
easier for reviewers to cite specific portions, and to minimize diff churn on
updates.

[documentation style guide]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/guide/style-guide.md
-->

> This KEP extends the Job API to allow setting conditions under which the Job can be declared as succeeded. 

Author: Done.

## Motivation

<!--
This section is for explicitly listing the motivation, goals, and non-goals of
this KEP.  Describe why the change is important and the benefits to users. The
motivation section can optionally provide links to [experience reports] to
demonstrate the interest in a KEP within the wider Kubernetes community.

[experience reports]: https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/ExperienceReports
-->

There are cases where a batch workload requires an indexed job that want to care 
only about drivers (leaders) indexes in determining the success or failure of a Job,
for example MPI and PyTorch etc. This is currently not possible because the indexed job 
is marked as Completed only if all indexes are succeeded.

> Additionally, there are cases where a batch workload requires a number

Reviewer 3: Is it possible to use this API with a non indexed job?

Author: Technically, it is possible. However, proposed two successfulPolicy can use only for indexed jobs.
Maybe, we can add more successfulPolicies for a non-indexed job when we have concrete use cases.

Reviewer 3: Sounds good to me.

> Additionally, there are cases where a batch workload requires a number

Author: done.

This should have enough detail that reviewers can understand exactly what
you're proposing, but should not include things like API designs or
implementation. What is the desired outcome and how do we measure success?.
The "Design Details" section below is for the real
nitty-gritty.
-->

We propose new policies under which a job can be declared as succeeded.
Those policies can be modeled in the following:

1. An indexed job completes if a set of [x, y, z...] indexes are successful.
2. An indexed job completes if x or x% of indexes are successful.

### User Stories (Optional)

<!--
Detail the things that people will be able to do if this KEP is implemented.
Include as much detail as possible so that people can understand the "how" of
the system. The goal here is to make this feel real for users without getting
bogged down.
-->

#### Story 1

As a machine-learning researcher, I run an indexed job which drivers (leaders) are launched
as index=0,1,2, and workers are launched as non index=3+.
I want to care about only the drivers when the result of job is evaluated.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed

>   successfulPolicy:

Author: done.

    requiredIndexes: "0-2"
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./sample"]
```

#### Story 2

As a machine-learning researcher, I run an indexed job with an autoscale semantic
set as a minimum number is 5 and a maximum number is 20.
I want to mark the job as successful at least 5 indexes succeeded, even if 
all indexes don't succeed.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successfulPolicy:
    minSucceededIndexes: 5
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./sample"]
```

#### Story 3

As a machine-learning researcher from the [Story 2](#story-2), I want to mark the job
as successful if 50% of all indexes succeed because I can not know how many indexes 
will have in advance.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed

>   successfulPolicy:

Author: Overall, I prefer your suggestion. But `list` sounds weird to me since the form (e.g., "0-2,3,10") isn't a list.
How about `compressedList`? Anyway, discussing API design with API reviewers would be better.

```
successPolicy:
  onSucceededIndexes:
    compressedList: "0-2"
    atLeast: "5%"  # only one of the fields is allowed
```

>   successfulPolicy:

Reviewer 2: ```yaml
successPolicy:
  onSucceededPods:
    indexes: "0-2"
    count: "5%"
```

This could work better. But again, for API review.

Note that enhancements freeze is tomorrow.

>   successfulPolicy:

Author: Thanks for the suggestions and notification.
I will do my best as much as possible.

So, we limit the size of `requiredIndexes` to 64Ki.

## Design Details

<!--
This section should contain enough information that the specifics of your
change are understandable. This may include API specs (though not always
required) or even code snippets. If there's any ambiguity about HOW your
proposal will be implemented, this is the place to discuss them.
-->

### Job API

We extend the Job API to set different policies by which a Job can be declared as succeeded.

```golang
type JobSpec struct {
	...
	// Specifies the policy when the job can be declared as succeeded.
	// If empty, the default behavior applies - the job is declared as succeeded
	// only when the number of succeeded pods equals to the completions.
	// This policy can not be specified more than one.
	//
	// This field is alpha-level. To use this field, you must enable the
	// `JobSuccessPolicy` feature gate (disable by default).
	// +option
	SuccessfulPolicy *SuccessfulPolicy
}

> // SuccessfulPolicy describes how succeeded pods influence the conditions.

Author: done.

	// separated by commas. The numbers are listed in increasing order. Three or
	// more consecutive numbers are compressed and represented by the first and
	// last element of the series, separated by a hyphen.
	// For example, if the completed indexes are 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7, they are
	// represented as "1,3-5,7".
	// 
	// +option
	RequiredIndexes string

	// Specifies the required number of indexes when .spec.completionMode =
	// "Indexed".
	// Value can be an absolute number (ex: 5) or a percentage of total indexes
	// when the job can be declared as succeeded (ex: 50%).
	// The absolute number is calculated from the percentage by rounding up. 
	// 
	// +option
	MinSucceededIndexes intstr.IntOrString
}
```

Moreover, we validate the following constraints:
- exactly one of the fields `requiredIndexes` and `minSucceededIndexes` is specified
  for a requirement.
- whether the specified indexes in the `requiredIndexes` and
  the number of indexes in the `minSucceededIndexes` don't exceed the value of `completions`.
- whether `Indexed` is specified in the `completionMode` field.
- whether the size of `requiredIndexes` is under 64Ki. 

### Evaluation

> We evaluate the SuccessfulPolicy after all indexes have been finished.

Author: > I don't think this is what the stories above suggest.
They suggest that the policy is satisfied as soon as the desired pods succeed. The workers might not even have the ability to terminate on their own, like MPI workers.

It makes sense.

> what happens with the running Pods when the success criteria is reached? Are they terminated?

I think expected behavior differs by use cases and policies (`indexes` vs `count`). 

if using `indexes`, some of the indexes are leaders, and all leaders succeeded means the whole of batch job succeeded. So we would propose that we terminate the running pods when batch jobs meet the successPolicy. 

If using `count`, expected behaviors are different by use cases. For example, let's imagine the situation that all indexes play a worker role:

1. Start batch job with `completions=10` and `count=5`.
2. the batch job is scaled in `completions=8` by autoscaler.
3. We would expect that all 8 indexes succeeded and don't expect that the job controller terminates running pods even if the batch job meets successPolicy (`count=5`).

Also, we can imagine the situation that all indexes play leader role (HA leaders):

1. Start batch job with `completions=3` and `count=1`.
2. One of the leaders succeeded.
3. We would expect that one of the indexes succeeded and the job controller terminates running pods once the batch job meets successPolicy (`count=1`).

So adding an action field like `podFilaurePolicy` would be good. @alculquicondor wdyt?

> Do they count towards failed or succeeded or none?

I would propose we count them towards success or none (unknown). Because if we count them towards failed, we need to consider backOffLimit, and it is able to produce potential bugs.

> We evaluate the SuccessfulPolicy after all indexes have been finished.

Reviewer 2: > If using `count`, expected behaviors are different by use cases. For example, let's imagine the situation that all indexes play a worker role:
> 
> 1. Start batch job with `completions=10` and `count=5`.
> 2. the batch job is scaled in `completions=8` by autoscaler.
> 3. We would expect that all 8 indexes succeeded and don't expect that the job controller terminates running pods even if the batch job meets successPolicy (`count=5`).

So all pods should terminate, but if 5 have phase=Success, then we still mark the Job as succeeded, even if the rest of the indexes fail?
Do you have a more specific use case that would work like this?

> 
> Also, we can imagine the situation that all indexes play leader role (HA leaders):
> 
> 1. Start batch job with `completions=3` and `count=1`.
> 2. One of the leaders succeeded.
> 3. We would expect that one of the indexes succeeded and the job controller terminates running pods once the batch job meets successPolicy (`count=1`).

I can think of a case that works like this, but where there are no leaders:
Imagine you are trying to minimize the value of a multi-parameter function and you want to find a solution for a target threshold X. You start an indexed job where each pod implements gradient descent has a different starting point for the parameters. Once each index reaches the threshold, it finishes, if not, it continues searching. Then, for the entire job you can set count=1, so that once one solution is found, we no longer continue searching for other solutions.

> 
> So adding an action field like `podFilaurePolicy` would be good. wdyt?

Maybe? I would like to see a use case for the first scenario.

> 
> > Do they count towards failed or succeeded or none?
> 
> I would propose we count them towards `succeeded` or `none` ( or `unknown`). Because if we count them towards `failed`, we need to consider backOffLimit, and it is able to produce potential bugs.

> We evaluate the SuccessfulPolicy after all indexes have been finished.

Reviewer: > Do you have a more specific use case that would work like this?
Perhaps some simulation / data generation that is known to error / fail sometimes (for any myriad of reasons), where you want at least N samples, hope for N+M, but would be happy with a value in-between that.

> We evaluate the SuccessfulPolicy after all indexes have been finished.

Reviewer 2: I see.... That makes sense to me. Then it sounds like there should be a field controlling whether to terminate the running Pods.

`whenTargetAchieved: Continue | TerminateRunning`

> We evaluate the SuccessfulPolicy after all indexes have been finished.

Author: Done.

for the KEP to move to `implementable` status and be included in the release.

In some cases, the questions below should also have answers in `kep.yaml`. This
is to enable automation to verify the presence of the review, and to reduce review
burden and latency.

The KEP must have a approver from the
[`prod-readiness-approvers`](http://git.k8s.io/enhancements/OWNERS_ALIASES)
team. Please reach out on the
[#prod-readiness](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CPNHUMN74) channel if
you need any help or guidance.
-->

### Feature Enablement and Rollback

<!--
This section must be completed when targeting alpha to a release.
-->

###### How can this feature be enabled / disabled in a live cluster?

<!--
Pick one of these and delete the rest.

Documentation is available on [feature gate lifecycle] and expectations, as
well as the [existing list] of feature gates.

[feature gate lifecycle]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/feature-gates.md
[existing list]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/
-->

- [x] Feature gate (also fill in values in `kep.yaml`)

>   - Feature gate name:

Reviewer 3: Add feature gate name

Author: Thanks! I missed this.

Author: done.

<!--
This is your opportunity to define what "normal" quality of service looks like
for a feature.

It's impossible to provide comprehensive guidance, but at the very
high level (needs more precise definitions) those may be things like:
  - per-day percentage of API calls finishing with 5XX errors <= 1%
  - 99% percentile over day of absolute value from (job creation time minus expected
    job creation time) for cron job <= 10%
  - 99.9% of /health requests per day finish with 200 code

These goals will help you determine what you need to measure (SLIs) in the next
question.
-->

###### What are the SLIs (Service Level Indicators) an operator can use to determine the health of the service?

<!--
Pick one more of these and delete the rest.
-->

- [x] Metrics
  - Metric name: `job_sync_duration_seconds` (existing): can be used to see how much the
    feature enablement increases the time spent in the sync job
  - Components exposing the metric:

###### Are there any missing metrics that would be useful to have to improve observability of this feature?

<!--
Describe the metrics themselves and the reasons why they weren't added (e.g., cost,
implementation difficulties, etc.).
-->

> No.

Reviewer 3: Should we consider adding a metric for this feature? PodFailurePolicy has a metric so it may make sense to add one for success?

Author: I will add new reasons to `job_finished_total` for JobSuccessfulPolicy. I believe it is enough. What do you think?

> `job_finished_total`: the new `JobSuccessfulPolicy` and `Completions` values for the `reason` label. 
>   - `JobSuccessfulPolicy` indicates a job is declared as succeeded because the job meets `.spec.successfulPolicy`.
>   - `Completions` indicates a job is declared as succeeded because the job mees `spec.completions`.

Reviewer 3: Sorry if I missed that. I think that sounds good to me.

Author: I mentioned that in `How can an operator determine if the feature is in use by workloads?` section!

  for a requirement.
- whether the specified indexes in the `requiredIndexes` and
  the number of indexes in the `minSucceededIndexes` don't exceed the value of `completions`.
- whether `Indexed` is specified in the `completionMode` field.
- whether the size of `requiredIndexes` is under 64Ki. 

### Evaluation
We evaluate the SuccessPolicy after all indexes have been finished.
And then if the job meets the SuccessPolicy, we add `Completed` condition
instead of `Failed` condition to `.status.conditions` even if other indexes fail.

If a set of indexes are specified in the `requiredIndexes` field,
we evaluate `.status.completedIndexes` to see if a set of indexes is there.

If the number of indexes is specified in the `minSucceededIndexes`, 
we evaluate `.status.succeeded` to see if the value is `minSucceededIndexes` or more.

### Test Plan

[x] I/we understand the owners of the involved components may require updates to
existing tests to make this code solid enough prior to committing the changes necessary
to implement this enhancement.

##### Prerequisite testing updates

##### Unit tests

- Test cases:

>   - tests for Defaulting and Validating

Reviewer 3: What kind of defaulting or validation will you do for this feature?

Author: @kannon92 You can check the details in the `Design Details` section.

Reviewer 3: Sorry I missed that!

  - [Risks and Mitigations](#risks-and-mitigations)
- [Design Details](#design-details)
  - [Job API](#job-api)
  - [Evaluation](#evaluation)
  - [Test Plan](#test-plan)
      - [Prerequisite testing updates](#prerequisite-testing-updates)
      - [Unit tests](#unit-tests)
      - [Integration tests](#integration-tests)
      - [e2e tests](#e2e-tests)
  - [Graduation Criteria](#graduation-criteria)
    - [Alpha](#alpha)
    - [Beta](#beta)
    - [GA](#ga)
  - [Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy](#upgrade--downgrade-strategy)
  - [Version Skew Strategy](#version-skew-strategy)
- [Production Readiness Review Questionnaire](#production-readiness-review-questionnaire)
  - [Feature Enablement and Rollback](#feature-enablement-and-rollback)
  - [Rollout, Upgrade and Rollback Planning](#rollout-upgrade-and-rollback-planning)
  - [Monitoring Requirements](#monitoring-requirements)
  - [Dependencies](#dependencies)
  - [Scalability](#scalability)
  - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [Implementation History](#implementation-history)
- [Drawbacks](#drawbacks)
- [Alternatives](#alternatives)
  - [Relax a validation for <code>.spec.completions</code>](#relax-a-validation-for-)

>   - [Hold indexes as []int typed in <code>.spec.successfulPolicy.onRequiredIndexes</code>](#hold-indexes-as-int-typed-in-)

Reviewer 3: This looks like a really weird heading

Author: I'll try to fix the heading.

Author: done.

because an indexed job author might not know how many indexes the job will have in advance
when the above batch workload has an autoscale semantic.

Some third-party frameworks have implemented success policy.

- [Kubeflow Training Operator](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/training)
- [Flux Operator](https://flux-framework.org/flux-operator/)

### Goals

- allow to mark a job as a `Succeeded` even if some of the indexes fail.

### Non-Goals

- Change the existing behavior of `NonIndexed` mode.
- Change the existing behavior of `Indexed` mode without a SuccessfulPolicy.

## Proposal

We propose new policies under which a job can be declared as succeeded.
Those policies can be modeled in the following:

1. An indexed job completes if a set of [x, y, z...] indexes are successful.
2. An indexed job completes if x or x% of indexes are successful.

### User Stories (Optional)

#### Story 1

As a machine-learning researcher, I run an indexed job which drivers (leaders) are launched
as index=0,1,2, and workers are launched as non index=3+.
I want to care about only the drivers when the result of job is evaluated.

```yaml

> apiVersion: v1

Reviewer 3: Nit: is the api version correct for a batch job? 
```suggestion
apiVersion: batch/v1
```

Author: Done.

kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successfulPolicy:
    requiredIndexes: "0-2"
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./sample"]
```

#### Story 2

As a machine-learning researcher, I run an indexed job with an autoscale semantic

> set as a minimum number is 5 and a maximum number is 20.

Reviewer 3: Reading this again, I don’t understand how this API supports “maximum number is 20”.

Author: This feature doesn't support scaling semantics ("maximum number is 20") for the Job. The external controller or CRD dynamically changes the batch/job completion.

I want to mark the job as successful at least 5 indexes succeeded, even if 
all indexes don't succeed.

```yaml

> apiVersion: v1

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
apiVersion: batch/v1
```

Author: Done.

kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successfulPolicy:
    minSucceededIndexes: 5
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./sample"]
```

#### Story 3

As a machine-learning researcher from the [Story 2](#story-2), I want to mark the job
as successful if 50% of all indexes succeed because I can not know how many indexes 
will have in advance.

```yaml

> apiVersion: v1

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
apiVersion: batch/v1
```

Author: Done.

### Risks and Mitigations

- If the job object's size reaches to limit of the etcd and
the job controller can't store a correct value in `.status.completedIndexes`,
we probably can not evaluate the SuccessfulPolicy correctly.

- If we allow to set unlimited size of the value in `.spec.successfulPolicy.requiredIndexes`,
we have a risk similar to [KEP-3850: Backoff Limits Per Index For Indexed Jobs](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/76dcd4f342cc0388feb085e685d4cc018ebe1dc9/keps/sig-apps/3850-backoff-limits-per-index-for-indexed-jobs#risks-and-mitigations).
So, we limit the size of `requiredIndexes` to 64Ki.

## Design Details

### Job API

We extend the Job API to set different policies by which a Job can be declared as succeeded.

```golang
type JobSpec struct {
	...
	// Specifies the policy when the job can be declared as succeeded.
	// If empty, the default behavior applies - the job is declared as succeeded
	// only when the number of succeeded pods equals to the completions.
	// This policy can not be specified more than one.
	//
	// This field is alpha-level. To use this field, you must enable the
	// `JobSuccessPolicy` feature gate (disable by default).

> 	// +option

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	// +optional
```

Reviewer 3: See this in a few places but it’s not a big deal.

Author: Done.

We can hold requiredIndexes as []int typed that a job can be declared as succeeded.

```golang
// SuccessfulPolicy describes how succeeded pods influence the conditions.
type SuccessfulPolicy struct {
	// Specifies a set of required indexes.
	// The job is declared as succeeded if a set of indexes are succeeded. 
	// The list of indexes must come within 0 to `.spec.completions` and
	// must not contain duplicates. At least one element is required. 
	// 
	// +option
	OnRequiredIndexes []int
...
}
```

However, if we allow users to set all indexes (`0-10^5`) to `.spec.successfulPolicy.onRequiredIndexes`
and don't limit the number of list sizes, there are cases that the size of a job object is too big.

In the worst case, allowed all indexes (`0-10^5`) are added to requiredIndexes, and a `onRequiredIndexes` size
is `SUM[9*10^n*(n+1)]+2+6≈5.6656MiB`, where:
- `n` starts from `0` and goes up to `5`.
- `1` of `n+1` means a separator that indicates `,`.
- `2` is the sum of the index `0` and `,`.
- `6` is the size of indexes `10^5`.

So, if we select this alternative API design, we need to limit the size of `onRequiredIndexes`. 

> ## Infrastructure Needed (Optional)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Author: done.

	// "Indexed" in a text format.
	// The job is declared as succeeded if a set of indexes are succeeded. 
	// The list of indexes must come within 0 to `.spec.completions` and
	// must not contain duplicates. At least one element is required. 
	// The indexes are represented as decimal integers
	// separated by commas. The numbers are listed in increasing order. Three or
	// more consecutive numbers are compressed and represented by the first and
	// last element of the series, separated by a hyphen.
	// For example, if the completed indexes are 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7, they are
	// represented as "1,3-5,7".
	// 
	// +optional
	Indexes string

	// Specifies the required number of indexes when .spec.completionMode =
	// "Indexed".
	// Value can be an absolute number (ex: 5) or a percentage of total indexes
	// when the job can be declared as succeeded (ex: 50%).
	// The absolute number is calculated from the percentage by rounding up.
	// 
	// +optional
	Count intstr.IntOrString

	// Specifies the action to be taken on the pods when the job achieved the requirements.
	// Possible values are:
	//
	// - Continue: indicate that all pods wouldn't be terminated.

> 	// - TerminateRunning: indicate that running pods would be terminated.

Reviewer 3: Is it running?

What happens in the case of a pod that is pending?  Would this not terminate that pod also?

Author: It's a good point. I think we should terminate pending pods.
So, instead of `TerminateRunning`, `Terminate` would be better.

Author: Done.

	WhenTargetAchieved WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy
}

// WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy specifies the action to be taken on the pods
// when the job achieved the requirements.
// +enum
type WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy string

const (
	// All pods wouldn't be terminated when the job reached successPolicy.
	ContinueWhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy = "Continue"

	// Running pods would be terminated when the job reached successPolicy.
	TerminateRunningWhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy = "TerminateRunning"
)
```

Moreover, we validate the following constraints for the `onSucceededPods`:
- exactly one of the fields `indexes` and `count` is specified
  for a requirement.
- whether the specified indexes in the `indexes` and
  the number of indexes in the `count` don't exceed the value of `completions`.
- whether `Indexed` is specified in the `completionMode` field.
- whether the size of `indexes` is under 64Ki.
- exactly one of the enum `continue` or `terminateRunning` is specified
in the `whenTargetAchieved`.

In addition, when the `successPolicy` isn't nil, we validate the `onSucceededPods` isn't nil.

> ### Evaluation

Reviewer 3: I would maybe suggest a section or a comment on what happens in the case of matching `PodFailurePolicy` and `SuccessPolicy`.  

Do you apply `FailurePolicy` first?  And I think FailurePolicy can apply on conditions so I think this case could happen.

Author: I think we should respect backOffLimit rather than successPolicy. So the number of failed pods exceeds backkOffLimit and the number of succeeded pods meets successPolicy, the Job declares "Failed".

cc: @alculquicondor @mimowo

Reviewer 3: > @kannon92 I think that `PodFailurePolicy` and `SuccessPolicy` don't match since the `SuccessPolicy` is the feature to declare "Job is succeeded" depends only on whether or not pods succeeded, and `PodFailurePolicy` decides whether or not the failure pods count as failed.
> 
> Does it make sense?

Yea, but I wonder if a single pod matches failure policy, we could declare the job as failed but what if enough indexes are successful?

Author: > Yea, but I wonder if a single pod matches failure policy, we could declare the job as failed but what if enough indexes are successful?

Does that mean `.spec.completions=1` and `backoffLimit=1`, right? In that case, as I mentioned above, the job would be declared `Failed` since I think we should respect `backOffLimit` rather than `suceesPolicy`.

Reviewer 3: No, I mean if you have just one pod out of all of them that returns something that matches the `PodFailurePolicy`.  Say a index returns a non-zero exit code or matches a condition

Reviewer 3: And yes, I think you should also consider backoffLimit also.

Author: > No, I mean if you have just one pod out of all of them that returns something that matches the PodFailurePolicy. Say a index returns a non-zero exit code or matches a condition

Sorry, maybe I could not understand correctly what you wanted to say. 
IIUC, after the PodFailurePolicy is evaluated, `syncJob` calculates whether or not the number of failed pods exceeds backoffLimit. So, I was thinking that we should consider only collisions of backoffLimit and successPolicy. 

https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/389e60fb2e43e7c13d67e4d9d3a95ed4f088917a/pkg/controller/job/job_controller.go#L958-L969

https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/389e60fb2e43e7c13d67e4d9d3a95ed4f088917a/pkg/controller/job/job_controller.go#L799

@kannon92  If I don't understand correctly, could you clarify?

Author: > So `PodFailurePolicy` isn't just about counting the backofflimit. You can say that if a pod has a certain exit code, I want to ignore the backofflimit entirely and fail the job.
> 
> https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/job/pod-failure-policy/#using-pod-failure-policy-to-avoid-unnecessary-pod-retries

Ah, right. If the `action` is `FailJob`, the situation will occur as you mentioned above.
So, we should evaluate the `PodFailurePolicy`, first.

Thank you for the clarifications!

Reviewer 3: I would add a note in Evaluation maybe for that.  And it may be worth also mentioning that we will evaluate BackoffLimit first before applying success policy?

Author: > I would add a note in Evaluation maybe for that. And it may be worth also mentioning that we will evaluate BackoffLimit first before applying success policy?

I agree with you. Thank you for the help.

Author: Done.

Reviewer 3: please resolve old threads. I am happy with the conclusion of this.

Author: Sure.

No.

### Scalability

No.

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in any new API calls?

No.

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in introducing new API types?

No.

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in any new calls to the cloud provider?

No.

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in increasing size or count of the existing API objects?

Yes, it will increase the size of existing API objects only when the `.spec.successPolicy` is set.

- API type(s): Job
- Estimated increase in size: `.spec.successPolicy.onSucceededPods.indexes` field are impacted.
In the worst case, the size of `indexes` can be estimated about 64KiB (see [Risks and Mitigations](#risks-and-mitigations)).

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in increasing time taken by any operations covered by existing SLIs/SLOs?

No.

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in non-negligible increase of resource usage (CPU, RAM, disk, IO, ...) in any components?

No.

###### Can enabling / using this feature result in resource exhaustion of some node resources (PIDs, sockets, inodes, etc.)?

No.

### Troubleshooting

> ###### How does this feature react if the API server and/or etcd is unavailable?

Reviewer 3: You should try and fill this out.

Author: Done.

###### What are other known failure modes?

None.

> ###### What steps should be taken if SLOs are not being met to determine the problem?

Author: Done.

## Implementation History
 
- 2023.06.06: This KEP is ready for review.
- 2023.06.09: API design is updated. 
- 2023.10.03: API design is updated.

> ## Drawbacks

Reviewer 3: Fill this out.

Author: Done.

  - [ ] (R) Minimum Two Week Window for GA e2e tests to prove flake free
- [x] (R) Graduation criteria is in place
  - [ ] (R) [all GA Endpoints](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/1806) must be hit by [Conformance Tests](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/conformance-tests.md) 
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review completed
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review approved
- [ ] "Implementation History" section is up-to-date for milestone
- [ ] User-facing documentation has been created in [kubernetes/website], for publication to [kubernetes.io]
- [ ] Supporting documentation—e.g., additional design documents, links to mailing list discussions/SIG meetings, relevant PRs/issues, release notes

[kubernetes.io]: https://kubernetes.io/
[kubernetes/enhancements]: https://git.k8s.io/enhancements
[kubernetes/kubernetes]: https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes
[kubernetes/website]: https://git.k8s.io/website

## Summary

This KEP extends the Job API to allow setting conditions under which an Indexed Job can be declared as succeeded.

## Motivation

There are cases where a batch workload requires an indexed job that want to care 

> only about drivers (leaders) indexes in determining the success or failure of a Job,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
only about leader indexes in determining the success or failure of a Job,
```
Maybe that's enough? We also have other names in use, for example MPIJob uses launcher.

Author: SGTM
There are various ways to call `leader`.

Author: Done.

for example MPI and PyTorch etc. This is currently not possible because the indexed job 
is marked as Completed only if all indexes are succeeded.

Additionally, there are cases where a batch workload can be declared as succeeded if a number of

> pods succeed, regardless of the index. Sometimes the number needs

Reviewer 6: sometimes the number needs what?

Author: I meant that we should support the `percentage` in the `count` field, not only the number of indexes.

I will update it.

Author: Oops. you're right. I must update this.

Author: I will change this motivation since we dropped the story for the percentage.

Author: Done.

because an indexed job author might not know how many indexes the job will have in advance
when the above batch workload has an autoscale semantic.

Some third-party frameworks have implemented success policy.

- [Kubeflow Training Operator](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/training)
- [Flux Operator](https://flux-framework.org/flux-operator/)

### Goals

- allow to mark a job as a `Succeeded` even if some of the indexes fail.

### Non-Goals

> - Change the existing behavior of `NonIndexed` mode.

Reviewer 5: Do we foresee extending this API for non-indexed jobs? Was it already discussed? If so, what are the reasons for dropping non-indexed jobs, scoping, or something more?

I'm ok to scope the PR to indexed, but it seems the stories 2-4 are all applicable to non-indexed jobs, and the API seems to mostly fit for non-indexed jobs already. The only field that is indexed-specific is `OnSucceededPods.indexes`.

Author: Yes, we have a discussion about non-indexed jobs here: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062#discussion_r1225362635

Since we don't have effective use cases now, I put the non-indexed job support in this.

@mimowo WDYT?

Reviewer 5: Sgtm, maybe just add a note somewhere, say in the notes section

Author: Done.

- Change the existing behavior of `Indexed` mode without a SuccessPolicy.

## Proposal

We propose new policies under which a job can be declared as succeeded.
Those policies can be modeled in the following:

1. An indexed job completes if a set of [x, y, z...] indexes are successful.
2. An indexed job completes if x or x% of indexes are successful.

### User Stories (Optional)

#### Story 1

As a machine-learning researcher, I run an indexed job which drivers (leaders) are launched
as index=0,1,2, and workers are launched as index=3+.

> I want to care about only the drivers when the result of job is evaluated.

Reviewer 6: In this scenario do all pods have to be Completed or only the index pods?

Author: It's only the index pods.
In other words, we want to mark the job as completed/succeded even if indexes excluding indexes, `0, 1, 2` like index `3` fail.

as successful if 50% of all indexes succeed because I can not know how many indexes 
will have in advance.

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
    onSucceededPods:
      count: 50%
      whenTargetAchieved: terminate
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
        - name: job-container
          image: job-image
          command: ["./sample"]
```

#### Story 4

As a simulation researcher/engineer for fluid dynamics/biochemistry.
I want to mark the job as successful and continue running the rest of the pods if some indexes succeed
because I set the minimum required value for sampling in the `.successPolicy.onSucceededPods.count` and
perform the same simulation in all indexes.

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
    onSucceededPods:
      count: 5
      whenTargetAchieved: continue
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
        - name: job-container
          image: job-image
          command: ["./sample"]
```

> ### Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)

Reviewer 5: Add a note that the concepts `completed` or `succeeded` job are used in the KEP interchangeably. 

It might be surprising to a reader that we change between these two terms. Even more, we do so at the API level calling the new policy `SuccessPolicy`, while the condition is called Completed, we also have `CompletedIndexes` field.

Author: Done.

we probably can not evaluate the SuccessPolicy correctly.

- If we allow to set unlimited size of the value in `.spec.successPolicy.onSucceededPods.indexes`,
we have a risk similar to [KEP-3850: Backoff Limits Per Index For Indexed Jobs](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/76dcd4f342cc0388feb085e685d4cc018ebe1dc9/keps/sig-apps/3850-backoff-limits-per-index-for-indexed-jobs#risks-and-mitigations).
So, we limit the size of `indexes` to 64Ki.

## Design Details

### Job API

We extend the Job API to set different policies by which a Job can be declared as succeeded.

```golang
type JobSpec struct {
	...
	// Specifies the policy when the job can be declared as succeeded.
	// If empty, the default behavior applies - the job is declared as succeeded
	// only when the number of succeeded pods equals to the completions.
	// This policy can not be specified more than one.
	//
	// This field is alpha-level. To use this field, you must enable the
	// `JobSuccessPolicy` feature gate (disable by default).
	// +optional
	SuccessPolicy *SuccessPolicy
}

// SuccessPolicy describes when a Job can be declared as succeeded based on the success of some Indexes.

> type SuccessPolicy struct {

Reviewer 6: Is anything else planned or anticipated to go into this struct?  If not, why not put the fields directly here?

Author: @deads2k We're discussing the same topic here: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062#discussion_r1448905787

So, could we continue to discuss this in the above thread?

	// Represents the requirement on the succeeded pods.
	// +optional
	OnSucceededPods *SuccessPolicyOnSucceededPods
}

// SuccessPolicyOnSucceededPods describes a Job can be succeeded based on succeeded pods.

> type SuccessPolicyOnSucceededPods struct {

Reviewer 6: Are Indexes and Count mutually exclusive?  I think so based on use-cases and how they would interact, but I'd like to be sure.

If mutually exclusive, is there a need to have different potential conditions as successPolicy (array) or is a single one sufficient?

Reviewer 6: And if mutually exclusive, make a discriminated union and specify which one is intended.

Author: > Are Indexes and Count mutually exclusive? I think so based on use-cases and how they would interact, but I'd like to be sure.

Yes, the `indexes` and `count` are mutually exclusive.

> If mutually exclusive, is there a need to have different potential conditions as successPolicy (array) or is a single one sufficient?

Does "different potential conditions as successPolicy (array)" mean the following situation?

```yaml
...
  successPolicy:
    - onSucceededPods:
        count: 5
        whenTargetAchieved: terminate
    - onSucceededPods:
        indexes: "0,1"
        whenTargetAchieved: continue
...
```

If so, I think a single one is sufficient for now since there is not any effective use case for making the successPolicy conditions array in the `onSucceededPods` condition.
However, as I described in https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062#discussion_r1460403114, since it is possible to add new conditions in the future, making the succesPolicy condition array like the [pod failure policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/job/pod-failure-policy/) would be nice to have.

Author: @deads2k Oh, I find an effective use case that the `indexes` and `count` are not mutually exclusive like this.
This is a similar user story to the user story 4.

```yaml
spec:
  completions: 10
  successPolicy:
    - onSucceededPods:
        indexes: "1-9"
        count: 5
        whenTargetAchieved: continue
    - onSucceededPods:
        indexes: "0"
        count: 1
        whenTargetAchieved: continue
```

In the above situations, the index `0` takes on the role of a leader, and the `1-9` indexes take on the role of `worker`. At this time, we want to mark the job as successful (completed) when the leader succeeds, and workers with the minimum required value of `5` for sampling succeed.

@mimowo I explained that the `indexes` and `count` are mutually exclusive in https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062#discussion_r1453287814. However, I find an effective use case for allowing both (`indexes` and `count`) like the above. WDYT?

Reviewer 5: > @mimowo I explained that the `indexes` and `count` are mutually exclusive in [#4062 (comment)](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062#discussion_r1453287814). However, I find an effective use case for allowing both (`indexes` and `count`) like the above. WDYT?

Sure, if there is a legitimate use case we should support it. I would also suggest to mention the use case in the User stories section. 

One consideration from me; do we need different actions `whenTargetAchieved`, for different targets represented by `onSucceededPods`? What if both targets match, which action is chosen there. Food for thought, but maybe this API is enough:
```yaml

spec:
  completions: 10
  successPolicy:
    - target:
        succeededIndexes: "1-9"
        succeededCount: 5
    - target:
        succeededIndexes: "0"
        succeededcount: 1
      whenTargetAchieved: continue
```
I don't have a strong view, just a proposal. I just don't feel like we would ever have different actions (`whenTargetAchieved) depending on the success target reached.

Author: >  I would also suggest to mention the use case in the User stories section.

It makes sense.

> do we need different actions whenTargetAchieved, for different targets represented by onSucceededPods? 

I still think that we need different actions since we may want to add new policies like the following in the future:

```yaml
spec:
  completions: 10
  successPolicy:
    - whenTargetAchieved: terminate
       target:
         onSucceededPods:
           indexes: "0"
           count: 1
    - whenTargetAchieved: continue
       target:
         onPolicyA:
           paramA0: ""
```

@mimowo Do you think that we should not have extensibility for the future? Let me know what you think.

>  What if both targets match, which action is chosen there. 

Similar to the pod failure policy, I think that we can evaluate policies in order.

> the Pod failure policy rules you specify under spec.podFailurePolicy.rules are evaluated in order. Once a rule matches a Pod failure, the remaining rules are ignored. When no rule matches the Pod failure, the default handling applies.

https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#pod-failure-policy

Reviewer 5: > @mimowo Do you think that we should not have extensibility for the future? Let me know what you think.

I think having different actions depending on the "success" target seems excessive, and we don't have a use case for this at the moment. 

I think we still could provide extensibility by introducing `whenTargetAchieved` at the lower level as override of the default at the higher level. 

I see partial analogy to pod failure policy, but there it was very clear from the beginning we would have different actions depending on the matched rule. 

Here, it looks more like a room for error. Say we have a default `whenTargetAchieved: terminate`, and the user has two targets, but only sets the `whenTargetAchieved` value for one, as `continue`. Then, it would be defaulted in the other target. As a result, it would have two different values. IMO this would rarely be the intention.

Author: > I think having different actions depending on the "success" target seems excessive, and we don't have a use case for this at the moment.

I agree.

> I think we still could provide extensibility by introducing whenTargetAchieved at the lower level as override of the default at the higher level (in the future).

It sounds reasonable to me. @mimowo Does this mean the following?

```yaml
spec:
  completions: 10
  successPolicy:
    whenTargetAchieved: terminate
    - target:
        succeededIndexes: "1-9"
        succeededCount: 5
        whenTargetAchieved: continue # <- we way add in the future if needed.
    - target:
        succeededIndexes: "1-9"
        succeededCount: 5
```

> I see partial analogy to pod failure policy, but there it was very clear from the beginning we would have different actions depending on the matched rule.

I see. This is the good study for defining API. Thanks!

Author: > Here, it looks more like a room for error. Say we have a default whenTargetAchieved: terminate, and the user has two targets, but only sets the whenTargetAchieved value for one, as continue. Then, it would be defaulted in the other target. As a result, it would have two different values. IMO this would rarely be the intention.

Indeed, there is a concern in my suggesting API like what you say.
So, I feel attracted to @mimowo 's suggested API.

@deads2k Let us know about your concerns as an API reviewer regarding the following API design.

We discussed in 

API Design: A

```yaml
spec:
  completions: 10
  successPolicy:
    - whenTargetAchieved: terminate
      target:
       onSucceededPods:
         indexes: "0"
         count: 1
    - whenTargetAchieved: continue
      target:
        onPolicyA:                      # <- we may add in the future if needed.
          paramA0: ""
```

API Design B:

```yaml
spec:
  completions: 10
  successPolicy:
    whenTargetAchieved: terminate
    - target:
        succeededIndexes: "1-9"
        succeededCount: 5
        whenTargetAchieved: continue # <- we may add in the future if needed.
    - target:
        succeededIndexes: "1-9"
        succeededCount: 5
        paramFoo: ""  # <- we may add in the future if needed.
```

Reviewer 6: If the `OnSucceededPods` slice under `SuccessPolicy` is ANDed, then the `whenTargetAchieved` logically belongs peer to the slice under `SuccessPolicy`.  If the `OnSucceededPods` slice is ORed, then `whenTargetAchieved` logically belongs in the `OnSucceededPods` item.

While deep nesting is user-hostile in cases where it is not needed, this is why `clusterRoleSelectors` in RBAC ORs the label selectors, but label selectors themselves are ANDed.

Author: Thank you for the great suggestion!

> If the OnSucceededPods slice under SuccessPolicy is ANDed, then the whenTargetAchieved logically belongs peer to the slice under SuccessPolicy. If the OnSucceededPods slice is ORed, then whenTargetAchieved logically belongs in the OnSucceededPods item.
> 
> While deep nesting is user-hostile in cases where it is not needed, this is why clusterRoleSelectors in RBAC ORs the label selectors, but label selectors themselves are ANDed.

I meant ORed. So, we should adopt the `API design B` and move `whenTargetAchieved` under the target.

```yaml
spec:
  completions: 10
  successPolicy:
    - target: # <- this level is ORed
        succeededIndexes: "1-9" # <- this level is ANDed
        succeededCount: 5
        whenTargetAchieved: continue
    - target:
        succeededIndexes: "0"
        succeededCount: 1
        whenTargetAchieved: terminate
```

In the above yaml, an index `0` is a leader, and other indexes (`1-9`) are workers.

When the job meets the first target (with whenTargetAchieved=continue), we want to mark the job as succeeded and to continue running the job's pods for sampling.

When the job meets the second target (with whenTargetAchieved=terminate), we want to mark the job as succeeded and terminate the running the job's pods since the completed leader means that the job is finished.

I will update the API design with this story in this KEP.

Although as @mimowo says, this API has the below concern, let me document it in this KEP.

> Here, it looks more like a room for error. Say we have a default whenTargetAchieved: terminate, and the user has two targets, but only sets the whenTargetAchieved value for one, as continue. Then, it would be defaulted in the other target. As a result, it would have two different values. IMO this would rarely be the intention.

Author: @deads2k @mimowo Done.

	// Specifies a set of required indexes when .spec.completionMode =
	// "Indexed" in a text format.
	// The job is declared as succeeded if a set of indexes are succeeded. 
	// The list of indexes must come within 0 to `.spec.completions` and
	// must not contain duplicates. At least one element is required. 
	// The indexes are represented as decimal integers
	// separated by commas. The numbers are listed in increasing order. Three or
	// more consecutive numbers are compressed and represented by the first and
	// last element of the series, separated by a hyphen.
	// For example, if the completed indexes are 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7, they are
	// represented as "1,3-5,7".
	// 
	// +optional

> 	Indexes string

Author: Yes, this is optional. Thanks.

> 	Indexes string

Author: Done.

	// Specifies the required number of indexes when .spec.completionMode =
	// "Indexed".
	// Value can be an absolute number (ex: 5) or a percentage of total indexes
	// when the job can be declared as succeeded (ex: 50%).
	// The absolute number is calculated from the percentage by rounding up.
	// 
	// +optional

> 	Count intstr.IntOrString

Author: As I described in the `Design Details` section, we only support `indexes` OR `count` fields. As you said, disallowing to set both of them would be better.

> exactly one of the fields `indexes` and `count` is specified for a requirement.

I will update the above sentence so that we can clarify that `indexes` and `count` are exclusive.

> 	Count intstr.IntOrString

Reviewer 5: Oh, I see thanks. Still, it makes sense to also mention that in API comments, because they are used to generate the user-facing documentation. For example, we do something similar with OnExitCodes and OnPodConditions, which are mutually exclusive [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/909faa3a9b33161992af0684c5582353b5be6d9b/pkg/apis/batch/types.go#L217). The API [docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/job-v1/#beta-level)

> 	Count intstr.IntOrString

Reviewer 5: Yes, use * if it is optional, as here: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/909faa3a9b33161992af0684c5582353b5be6d9b/pkg/apis/apps/types.go#L109

> 	Count intstr.IntOrString

Author: Thank you for the navigation.
I agree with pointing out the exclusiveness as an API comment.

> 	Count intstr.IntOrString

Author: It’s a great pointing out! Thanks!

> 	Count intstr.IntOrString

Author: Done.

> 	Count intstr.IntOrString

Author: As I explained here: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062#discussion_r1460681741, we have a story that `indexes` and `count` are not mutually exclusive.

	// Specifies the action to be taken on the not finished (succeeded or failed) pods 
	// when the job achieved the requirements.
	// Possible values are:
	//

> 	// - Continue: indicates that all pods wouldn't be terminated.

Reviewer 6: As these pods continue, will PodFailurePolicy still apply and potentially restart?

Author: > As these pods continue, will PodFailurePolicy still apply and potentially restart?

Yes, it's almost correct. However, I think that we shouldn't allow applying the PodFailurePolicy with the `action=FailJob` after the job is marked as successful by the successPolicies.

Because after marking the job as successful by suceessPolicies, we only allow the remaining indexes to keep running until the indexes are completed or failed, and we don't want to expect that to change the results of a job that has finalized results (completed/succeeded or failed) as you described in https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062/files#r1458047126.

> once marked successful, the job should never be marked Failed.

cc: @mimowo @kannon92

Reviewer 3: This does seem like a bit of leakage to me. We are saying that our Job is successful and we want to continue running. So I think we need to spell out both `PodFailurePolicy` and `backoffLimit` behavior. So it seems that if the rule is matched with continue, we would short circuit any failure case and mark the overall job as successful? So then we are skipping both `backoffLimit` and `PodFailurePolicy`?

I almost wonder what is the point of continue then?

Reviewer 3: That sounds good to me. So the suggestion is to add a condition for when "SuccessPolicy" is matched and the job continues to run. But if there is any new failure we can still mark the job as Failed even if SuccessPolicy matched (ie backOffLimit, PodFailurePolicy).

Author: > I'd argue that continue doesn't mean finish what you've started, and ignore failures. Continue is continue as it would normally be. You just introduce an earlier success mode, but the rest should continue running as before. Otherwise the API is hard to follow.

It sounds reasonable to me. I think that once we introduce `Succeeded` condition type separate from `Completed`,
the job-controller can mark jobs failed by backoffLimit or podFailureCondition after a job meets SuccessPolicy with `whenTargetAchieved=continue`.

Reviewer 4: We should think about how we'll teach this, and what something like `kubectl describe` would show for a job that has succeeded (condition) and also failed (Job outcome).

There are various ways to tweak around this. For example:
- rename the condition to `SuccessCriteriaMet` (which doesn't so obviously conflict with Failed).
- also set a `Succeeded` condition, but only when we know that the Job outcome can't become Failed.
- prohibit using the FailJob action in a way that a Job could set the succeeded condition and also fail overall

Reviewer 5: To me, the natural interpretation of `continue` that once the success criteria are met, we let the running pods to continue, but ignore failures (don't recreate them based on backoffLimit or pod failure policy).

IIUC this is the intention of the story 2: you run a simulation, and have some minimal requirements on the number of successful (say 1000) samples to get statistical significance. Once you reach the threshold, you may prefer to let the extra samples finish to have a stronger signal, but you don't want to spend much more time / resources on pod restarts.

Also, I think respecting pod failure policy action `Count`, but not `FailJob` could be confusing.

Having said that, maybe there is room for 3 options: `continue`, `terminate` and `continueWithRecreations`. Given this is late, maybe we can do only terminate in the first Alpha iteration, but add a graduation point for Beta to decide on the set of supported options?

Reviewer 4: What can we do to get this KEP merged at least as provisional? Let's aim for that and iterate towards alpha.

Author: > Also, I think respecting pod failure policy action Count, but not FailJob could be confusing.

It sounds reasonable, IIRC, @kannon92 also has the same concern.

> Having said that, maybe there is room for 3 options: continue, terminate and continueWithRecreations. Given this is late, maybe we can do only terminate in the first Alpha iteration, but add a graduation point for Beta to decide on the set of supported options?

This is a great point. I agree with adding only `terminate` to `whenTargetAchived` in the alpha stage.
I think we need to have more discussions on `continuing` action. However, I don't think that we have enough time for discussions in the alpha stage.

Reviewer 3: +1 on `continuing` for alpha and we discuss more `continuing`. I think `terminate` is going to be very useful by itself so I think the KEP can proceed with just that option.

Author: Done.

Reviewer 7: I agree with everyone, that the exit criteria require more thought, as we see every one of us is looking at it from a different angle. So making sure we all agree on consistent naming and conditions is paramount to make this kep a working thing.

> 	// - Continue: indicates that all pods wouldn't be terminated.

Reviewer 6: How does "continue" intersect with CronJobs?  If I have a cronjob concurrencyPolicy of Forbid and the Job indicates Success, but is still running pods, what do I expect to happen?

Author: It's a great question. I believe that we can select either 2 actions like this:

1. The CronJob with the `concurrentPolicy=Forbid` creates a new Job based only on the job's result (completed or failed). It means that the CronJob creates a new Job regardless of remaining running pods by the `whenTargetAchived=continue`. Then, together with the `JobSuccessPolicy`, we introduce a new concurrentPolicy, `strictForbid`, that the CronJob with `concurrentPolicy=strictForbid` creates a new Job after all job's pods are finalized. The `strictForbid` means the CronJob doesn't create if there are remaining running pods.

2. The CronJob with the `concurrentPolicy=Forbid` doesn't create a new Job if there are remaining running pods.
After we find the use case that we want to create a new Job by the CronJob based only on the result of the job, we introduce the new field, `concurrentPolicyStrategy=FinalizedJob|FializedPods (default)`.

I think that option 2 would be better since the current CronJob with `cuncurrentPolicy=Forbid` creates a new Job based on the job that all pods implictly are finalized, and option 1 has the breaking changes.

@deads2k WDYT?

Reviewer 6: I think both could be "breaking" depending on perspective.

1. I view the Forbid as, "as soon as a job result is available, the next instance can run".  In this case, delaying that start is  breaking change.
2. I view the Forbid as, "as long as any job pod is running, the next instance is blocked".  In this case, starting the next job is a breaking change.

The safer way to break is 2 as you also indicated above. However, given that 1 is a valid way to interpret the intent, the CronJob API should have a way to represent it.  I think this impacts both Forbid and Replace policies since Replace would logically need to halt the continuing pods and Forbid needs two different options: Forbid-until-all-pods-done (likely just Forbid) and ForbidUntilJobSuccessful

Author: @deads2k I think that we can avoid "breaking" change by modifying the following logic:

CronJob logic change to prevent breaking change:

- `cuncurrentPolicy=Forbid`: Replace `len(cronJob.Status.Active) > 0` with `len(cronJob.Status.Active) > 0 && len(runningPods) >0` in https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/7bb00356f06332e63a9f06acd42f1bdd8fc559d6/pkg/controller/cronjob/cronjob_controllerv2.go#L558. This means that the CronJob doesn't create "as long as any job pod is running".
- `cuncurrentPolicy=Replace`: Delete jobs that have running pods in https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/7bb00356f06332e63a9f06acd42f1bdd8fc559d6/pkg/controller/cronjob/cronjob_controllerv2.go#L574

> However, given that 1 is a valid way to interpret the intent, the CronJob API should have a way to represent it.

Also, I agree with this.

So, it might be better to apply the above `CronJob logic change to prevent breaking change` in the alpha stage, and then we add a new `concurrencyPolicy=ForbidUntilJobSuccessful` in the beta stage.

@deads2k @soltysh WDYT?

Author: > Quoting our API docs:
> 
> ```
> - "Forbid": forbids concurrent runs, skipping next run if previous run hasn't finished yet;
> ```
> 
> so going back to what I mentioned earlier. Succeeded is just an intermediary step, which allows you to act on job results earlier, w/o waiting for the rest. But the job is not finished. Finished is only when it reaches the final step which is succeeded or failed. We can't break that assumption about jobs.

@deads2k @soltysh It makes sense. By introducing `Succeeded` condition type separate from `Completed`, I guess that we can avoid any API and feature breaking, right?

Author: In the alpha stage, the CronJob concurrentPolicy works based on the Job `Completed` condition as before.
We will discuss the possibility of adding a new concurrentPolicy, "ForbidUntilJobSuccessful" when the graduation to beta.

Author: Done.

	// - Terminate: indicates that not finished pods would be terminated.

> 	WhenTargetAchieved WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy

Reviewer 5: Do we have a default here? I think `terminate` looks like better default.

Author: It makes sense. I believe that the use cases of the `terminate` would be general rather than the `continue` one.

Author: Done.

> 	WhenTargetAchieved WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy

Reviewer 5: I think it is more natural to put `WhenTargetAchieved` directly under `SuccessPolicy`. The field `OnSucceededPods` would still describe the target.

Author: Given that we add a new `successPolicy` so that we can configure the `whenTargetAchived` in each `successPolicy`, I think that this API form (put the `whenTargetAchived` under the `onSuceededPods`) would be better.

WDYT? @mimowo 

Anyway, we need to review new APIs by API reviewers.

Reviewer 5: Not sure I understand `Given that we add a new successPolicy so that we can configure the whenTargetAchived in each successPolicy`, sounds very abstract. Do you have a particular extension of the API that would be harder if the `whenTargetAchieved` what just under `successPolicy`?

In my understanding, we have just one `successPolicy` in the API. If we intend to support having multiple, maybe we should think of a list of rules like in pod failure policy, but I'm not sure we want to go this path.

Also, I find this API a little bit confusing, because it is not clear what the target is, this is why I propose the change as here: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062#discussion_r1453297580.

Author: > Do you have a particular extension of the API that would be harder if the whenTargetAchieved what just under successPolicy?

@mimowo We can consider the following situations in which we add new success policies in the future:

```yaml
...
spec:
  successPolicy:
    onPolicyA:
      paramA0: ""
    onPolicyB:
      paramB0: ""
    onSucceededPods:
      count: 5
      whenTargetAchieved: terminate
...
```

If we directly put `whenTargetAchieved` under the `.spec.successPolicy` field, the `whenTargetAchived` affects other successPolicies.

> In my understanding, we have just one successPolicy in the API. If we intend to support having multiple, maybe we should think of a list of rules like in the pod failure policy, but I'm not sure we want to go this path.

Defining the successPolicy as a form similar to the pod failure policy sounds attractive.
However, I'm not sure how extensible we should define APIs for the future.
 Let me know what you think. @deads2k

> Also, I find this API a little bit confusing, because it is not clear what the target is, this is why I propose the change as here: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062#discussion_r1453297580.

It sounds reasonable to me.
Maybe we should have the `action` field instead of the `whenTargetAchived` like this:

```
  successPolicy:
    onSucceededPods:
      count: 5
      action: terminateRunning | none
```

The `action` means the following semantics:

- `terminateRunning`: All pods, including running one, are terminated once the job meets this successPolicy. 
- `none`: Even if the job meets this successPolicy, running pods aren't terminated.

Author: Related thread is here: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062#discussion_r1460681741

Author: We want to continue discussing API design here: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062#discussion_r1458041856

> 	WhenTargetAchieved WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy

Reviewer: I like the more explicit naming.

> 	WhenTargetAchieved WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy

Author: Updated APIs.

}

// WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy specifies the action to be taken on the pods
// when the job achieved the requirements.
// +enum
type WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy string

const (
	// All pods wouldn't be terminated when the job reached successPolicy.
	ContinueWhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy = "Continue"

	// Not finished pods would be terminated when the job reached successPolicy.
	TerminateWhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy = "Terminate"
)
```

Moreover, we validate the following constraints for the `onSucceededPods`:

> - exactly one of the fields `indexes` and `count` is specified

Reviewer 5: also check if the format of `indexed` field is correct. Also, if the `count` if expressed as a string has correct "percentage" format. Do we allow point percentages, like "45.5%"?

Author: Yes, we do. I will add validations similar to [`ValidateRollingUpdateDaemonSet`](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/909faa3a9b33161992af0684c5582353b5be6d9b/pkg/apis/apps/validation/validation.go#L387).

Author: >  Do we allow point percentages, like "45.5%"?

No, I don't think that we should allow point percentages.
I was supposed to allow only absolute number percentage the same as the deployment's `.spec.strategy.rollingUpdate.maxUnavailable`.

I will add a note to API comments.

Author: Done.

> - exactly one of the fields `indexes` and `count` is specified

Author: It makes sense.

> - exactly one of the fields `indexes` and `count` is specified

Author: This validation was deleted since we changed the condition to ANDed.

in the `whenTargetAchieved`.

In addition, when the `successPolicy` isn't nil, we validate the `onSucceededPods` isn't nil.

### Evaluation
We evaluate the SuccessPolicy every in updating pod conditions.
And then if the job meets the SuccessPolicy, we add `Completed` condition
instead of `Failed` condition to `.status.conditions` even if some indexes fail.

If a set of indexes are specified in the `indexes` field,
we evaluate `.status.completedIndexes` to see if a set of indexes is there.

If the number of indexes is specified in the `count`, 
we evaluate `.status.succeeded` to see if the value is `count` or more.

Also, the job controller do actions against running pods based on the value of `onSucceededPods.whenTargetAchieved`:

- `continue`: Nothing. Running pods continues to run.
- `terminate`: Not finished pods would be terminated by the job controller. Not finished pods means running or pending pods.

#### The situations where successPolicy conflicts other terminating policies

The successPolicy has potential conflicts with the [pod failure policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/job/pod-failure-policy/)
and backoffLimit in the following situations: 

> - when the job meets the successPolicy and some pod failure policies with the `FailJob` action.

Reviewer 5: What would we do in case of job exceeding activeDeadlineSeconds? Currently we fail the job, but it is reported as a bug. It makes sense to clarify here: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/117303. Maybe we leave the decision for graduation to Beta?

Reviewer 5: Yes it is separate. I only mentioned it because the list of possible failure reasons was mentioned and acivedeadline is one of them. However, feel free to resolve and handle separately from the keps

Author: Thank you for confirmation.
After this KEP is merged, I'm going to work on https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/117303.

- when the job meets the successPolicy and the number of failed pods exceeds `backoffLimit`.

> So, the successPolicy will be evaluated after the pod failure policy and backoffLimit to avoid the above conflicts.

Reviewer 6: That's not possible since pods can continue after the job is marked Success.  Once marked successful, the job should never be marked Failed.

I suggest adding validation to that effect.  Separate PR so we can discuss whether that's a breaking API change to prevent changes of terminal state.

Author: I meant that the `SuccessPolicy` isn't evaluated once the jobs are finalized by the pod failure policy and backoffLimit here. So, I guess that this has possibilities.

@deads2k Let me know if my understanding is not correct.

Reviewer 6: That sounds like, "whichever criteria is met first wins", which I find acceptable, but needs to be clear in doc and validation must prevent the switch.

Author: > That sounds like, "whichever criteria is met first wins", which I find acceptable, but needs to be clear in doc

@deads2k Yes, that's right. Also, I will update this KEP for clarification and will add this notification to the website documentation.

> validation must prevent the switch.

@deads2k We should validate that the order of `successPolicies` isn't switched, right?
This means that the below `The second apply` must be rejected by validations, right?

The first apply:

```yaml
successPolicy:
    - target:
        succeededIndexes: "1-9"
        succeededCount: 5
    - target:
        succeededIndexes: "0"
        succeededCount: 1
```

The second apply:

```yaml
successPolicy:
    - target:
        succeededIndexes: "0"
        succeededCount: 1
    - target:
        succeededIndexes: "1-9"
        succeededCount: 5
```

Author: I made the order of the successPolicy immutable.

Author: The successPolicy is immutable, as well as podFailurePoliy.

Done.

Therefore, the pod failure policy and backoffLimit will be respected rather than the successPolicy.

### Test Plan

[x] I/we understand the owners of the involved components may require updates to
existing tests to make this code solid enough prior to committing the changes necessary
to implement this enhancement.

##### Prerequisite testing updates

##### Unit tests

- Test cases:
  - tests for Defaulting and Validating
  - tests for rounding up absolute numbers in `.spec.successPolicy.onSucceededPods.count`.
  - verify whether a job has condition=completed if the job meets to successPolicy
  and some indexes fail.

- `k8s.io/kubernetes/pkg/controller/job`: `6 June 2023` - `90.5%`
- `k8s.io/kubernetes/pkg/apis/batch/validation`: `6 June 2023` - `98.5%`

##### Integration tests

- Test scenarios:
  - enabling, disabling and re-enabling of the `JobSuccessPolicy` feature gate
  - handling of successPolicy when all indexes succeeded

>   - handling of the `.spec.successPolicy.onSucceededPods.indexes` when some indexes fail

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - handling of the `.spec.successPolicy.onSucceededPods.indexes` when some indexes remain pending
```
I don't think there is a concept of index failing prior to `backoffLimitPerIndex` feature

Author: Done.

>   - handling of the `.spec.successPolicy.onSucceededPods.count` when some indexes fail

Reviewer 5: we also need to test 
- the two policies for  `whenTargetAchieved`
- the use of the features when indexes fail when using `backoffLimitPerIndex`

Author: > the two policies for whenTargetAchieved

As we discussed in https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062#discussion_r1453287814, we allow only either policies (`indexes` vs `count`). So, I think this case is not needed.

I believe that a validation unit test would be enough.

Author: Updated.

      - [Unit tests](#unit-tests)
      - [Integration tests](#integration-tests)
      - [e2e tests](#e2e-tests)
  - [Graduation Criteria](#graduation-criteria)
    - [Alpha](#alpha)
    - [Beta](#beta)
    - [GA](#ga)
  - [Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy](#upgrade--downgrade-strategy)
  - [Version Skew Strategy](#version-skew-strategy)
- [Production Readiness Review Questionnaire](#production-readiness-review-questionnaire)
  - [Feature Enablement and Rollback](#feature-enablement-and-rollback)
  - [Rollout, Upgrade and Rollback Planning](#rollout-upgrade-and-rollback-planning)
  - [Monitoring Requirements](#monitoring-requirements)
  - [Dependencies](#dependencies)
  - [Scalability](#scalability)
  - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [Implementation History](#implementation-history)
- [Drawbacks](#drawbacks)
- [Alternatives](#alternatives)
  - [Relax a validation for completions](#relax-a-validation-for-completions)
  - [Hold indexes as []int typed in successPolicy](#hold-indexes-as-int-typed-in-successpolicy)
<!-- /toc -->

## Release Signoff Checklist

Items marked with (R) are required *prior to targeting to a milestone / release*.

> - [ ] (R) Enhancement issue in release milestone, which links to KEP dir in [kubernetes/enhancements] (not the initial KEP PR)

Reviewer 3: Please mark these as complete if they are done.

Author: @kannon92 Do you know where the release milestone exists?

Author: Does this mean this? https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/167/views/2

Reviewer 3: I see. So the enhancement issue needs to be opt-in from sig-apps and tracked in the release board. So I guess this shouldn't be marked as complete yet.

Author: It makes sense. I will try to contact @soltysh.

Reviewer 3: You can mark this as done thanks to soltysh opted in the enhancement.

Author: Done. Thanks!

> - [ ] (R) Enhancement issue in release milestone, which links to KEP dir in [kubernetes/enhancements] (not the initial KEP PR)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [x] (R) Enhancement issue in release milestone, which links to KEP dir in [kubernetes/enhancements] (not the initial KEP PR)
```

Author: Done.

The Job controller considers the `.spec.successPolicy` when it updates `.status.conditions`
only for running Jobs and don't update `.status.conditions` for already finished jobs.

###### Are there any tests for feature enablement/disablement?

No, we'll add them during alpha.

### Rollout, Upgrade and Rollback Planning

###### How can a rollout or rollback fail? Can it impact already running workloads?

Even if the kube-controller-manager is rolled out or rollback fail, already running workloads aren't any impact.
The default behavior will be applied to running workloads.

###### What specific metrics should inform a rollback?

An increase in the `job_sync_duration_seconds` metrics can mean that finished jobs
are taking longer to evaluate.

The users should check whether the completed jobs have the appropriate condition,
specifically the reason.

###### Were upgrade and rollback tested? Was the upgrade->downgrade->upgrade path tested?

No.

###### Is the rollout accompanied by any deprecations and/or removals of features, APIs, fields of API types, flags, etc.?

No.

### Monitoring Requirements

###### How can an operator determine if the feature is in use by workloads?

> `job_finished_total`: the new `JobSuccessPolicy` and `Completions` values for the `reason` label. 

Reviewer 3: Maybe this metric is added to metrics section.

Reviewer 3: you can ignore this.

- [ ] (R) Production readiness review completed
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review approved
- [ ] "Implementation History" section is up-to-date for milestone
- [ ] User-facing documentation has been created in [kubernetes/website], for publication to [kubernetes.io]
- [ ] Supporting documentation—e.g., additional design documents, links to mailing list discussions/SIG meetings, relevant PRs/issues, release notes

[kubernetes.io]: https://kubernetes.io/
[kubernetes/enhancements]: https://git.k8s.io/enhancements
[kubernetes/kubernetes]: https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes
[kubernetes/website]: https://git.k8s.io/website

## Summary

This KEP extends the Job API to allow setting conditions under which an Indexed Job can be declared as succeeded.

## Motivation

There are cases where a batch workload requires an indexed job that want to care 
only about leader indexes in determining the success or failure of a Job,
for example MPI and PyTorch etc. This is currently not possible because the indexed job 

> is marked as Completed only if all indexes are succeeded.

Author: Done.

Additionally, there are cases where a batch workload can be declared as succeeded if a number of
pods succeed, regardless of the index. Sometimes the number needs
because an indexed job author might not know how many indexes the job will have in advance
when the above batch workload has an autoscale semantic.

Some third-party frameworks have implemented success policy.

- [Kubeflow Training Operator](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/training)

> - [Flux Operator](https://flux-framework.org/flux-operator/)

Author: It's a great use case. Thanks.

> - [Flux Operator](https://flux-framework.org/flux-operator/)

Reviewer 8: feel free to add it and close the comment

> - [Flux Operator](https://flux-framework.org/flux-operator/)

Author: Done.

### Goals

> - allow to mark a job as a `Succeeded` even if some of the indexes fail.

Author: Done.

### Non-Goals

- Change the existing behavior of `NonIndexed` mode.
- Change the existing behavior of `Indexed` mode without a SuccessPolicy.

## Proposal

We propose new policies under which a job can be declared as succeeded.
Those policies can be modeled in the following:

1. An indexed job completes if a set of [x, y, z...] indexes are successful.
2. An indexed job completes if x or x% of indexes are successful.

### User Stories (Optional)

#### Story 1

As a machine-learning researcher, I run an indexed job which leaders are launched

> as index=0,1,2, and workers are launched as index=3+.

Author: In general, a job has only one leader. So, we should update this story.
Thanks.

> as index=0,1,2, and workers are launched as index=3+.

Author: Done.

I want to care about only the leaders when the result of job is evaluated.

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
    onSucceededPods:
      indexes: "0-2"
      whenTargetAchieved: terminate
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./sample"]
```

#### Story 2

> As a machine-learning researcher, I run an indexed job with an autoscale semantic

Author: I assumed to use horovod.

> As a machine-learning researcher, I run an indexed job with an autoscale semantic

Reviewer 8: I know horovod supports a form of autoscaling, but does horovod actually have those success semantics? if so, please add to the KEP and a reference to Horovod docs.

IIUC, the Horovod case should be addressed by mutating the .spec.completions to scale-down the job (the ElasticIndexedJob feature), and so the success semantics doesn't change: all pods should succeed, which in this case would be the reduced completion count.

The reason I am asking for this is because some of the stories mentioned here seem hypothetical and lacking a real-world example.

> As a machine-learning researcher, I run an indexed job with an autoscale semantic

Author: It sounds reasonable. Thank you for pointing out this :)

I reinvestigated PyTorch+HPA (implemented in kubeflow), MPI+Horovod, and PyTorch+Horovod with autoscaling. As a result, I find that all cases require that all worker ranks (MPIRank/PyTorchRank) succeed, and frameworks don't support multiple leaders, although they allow them to recreate ranks.

So, I think we should remove story 2 and story 3.
Are there any other concerns about autoscaling semantics?

Note that I think that `count: 5` and `count: 50%` forms are still effective for story 4.

> As a machine-learning researcher, I run an indexed job with an autoscale semantic

Author: Done.

set as a minimum number is 5 and a maximum number is 20.

> I want to mark the job as successful at least 5 indexes succeeded, even if 

Author: Done.

all indexes don't succeed.

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
    onSucceededPods:
      count: 5
      whenTargetAchieved: terminate
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./sample"]
```

#### Story 3

As a machine-learning researcher from the [Story 2](#story-2), I want to mark the job

> as successful if 50% of all indexes succeed because I can not know how many indexes 

Author: Done.

> will have in advance.

Author: It makes sense.

> will have in advance.

Author: Done.

set as a minimum number is 5 and a maximum number is 20.
I want to mark the job as successful when at least 5 indexes succeeded, even if 
all indexes don't succeed.

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
    onSucceededPods:
      count: 5
      whenTargetAchieved: terminate
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./sample"]
```

#### Story 3

As a machine-learning researcher from the [Story 2](#story-2), I want to mark the job
as successful if 50% of all indexes succeed because I can not know how many indexes 
will have in advance.

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
    onSucceededPods:
      count: 50%
      whenTargetAchieved: terminate
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
        - name: job-container
          image: job-image
          command: ["./sample"]
```

#### Story 4

As a simulation researcher/engineer for fluid dynamics/biochemistry.

> I want to mark the job as successful and continue running the rest of the pods if some indexes succeed

Author: I think that your concerns could be resolved by the new condition type `Succeeded`.
@kannon92 WDYT?

> I want to mark the job as successful and continue running the rest of the pods if some indexes succeed

Reviewer 3: Yea though conditions are not that granular. My main concern is say you submit  a job with 10,000 pods and you say are okay if 50% of them finish. What happens if a user wants to know what the other 50% did? Since I think most people that submits jobs would want them to actually finish..

Condition can at least say that successPolicy was successful but there are running jobs. UX is still a bit lackluster.

But I think we can't expect conditions to do that. So I'm fine with resolving this.

I guess in this case maybe kube isn't the best thing to use as you probably want a dedicated workflow engine to help with that case..

> I want to mark the job as successful and continue running the rest of the pods if some indexes succeed

Author: > if 50% of them finish. What happens if a user wants to know what the other 50% did? Since I think most people that submits jobs would want them to actually finish..

@kannon92 Yes, you're right, but I think that the user can find the result of leaving the pod in the status field since even if the `Succeeded` condition is added to the job, the job keeps tracking the leaving pods and updating the job status:

https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/a9e4f5b7862e84c4152eabe2e960f3f6fb9a4867/pkg/apis/batch/types.go#L464-L485

because I set the minimum required value for sampling in the `.successPolicy.onSucceededPods.count` and
perform the same simulation in all indexes.

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
    onSucceededPods:
      count: 5
      whenTargetAchieved: continue
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
        - name: job-container
          image: job-image
          command: ["./sample"]
```

### Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)

> #### No support JobSuccessPolicy for the NonIndexed Job

Reviewer 3: nit: this should probably be in the non goal. You sorta mention it but its more of a non goal versus a note/constraint.

Author: It already exists in the non goal section. I added this here based on suggestions that we should have this in the Notes as well.

Reviewer 3: Maybe link to the section in `NonGoals`?

its a nit though..

Author: Alright. Let me move details to NonGoals, and then put a link here.

Author: Done.

we have a risk similar to [KEP-3850: Backoff Limits Per Index For Indexed Jobs](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/76dcd4f342cc0388feb085e685d4cc018ebe1dc9/keps/sig-apps/3850-backoff-limits-per-index-for-indexed-jobs#risks-and-mitigations).
So, we limit the size of `succeededIndexes` to 64Ki.

## Design Details

### Job API

We extend the Job API to set different policies by which a Job can be declared as succeeded.

```golang
type JobSpec struct {
	...
	// Specifies the policy when the job can be declared as succeeded.
	// If empty, the default behavior applies - the job is declared as succeeded
	// only when the number of succeeded pods equals to the completions.
	// These policies are evaluated in order.
	//
	// This field is alpha-level. To use this field, you must enable the
	// `JobSuccessPolicy` feature gate (disable by default).
	// +optional
    // +listType=atomic
	SuccessPolicy []SuccessPolicy
}

// SuccessPolicy describes when a Job can be declared as succeeded based on the success of some indexes.
type SuccessPolicy struct {
	// Represents the requirement on the succeeded pods.
	// +optional

> 	Target *SuccessPolicyTarget

Reviewer 5: As in discussed in the other threads, we may need to have mutliple targets in the future, connected by OR.

Maybe this is a place where we could consider having a list of targets / rules already, because I don't think we will be able to easily move the singleton to a list in the future. 

Even if there is no clear use case for now maybe this could be justified by the foreseeable need for extensibility? WDYT @tenzen-y @deads2k @alculquicondor ?

Author: > As in discussed in the other threads, we may need to have mutliple targets in the future, connected by OR.

@mimowo For more clarification, does that mean the following?

```yaml
...
  successPolicy:
  - targets:
    - succeededIndexes: "0"
      whenTargetAchieved: terminate
...
```

Current my proposal:

```yaml
...
  successPolicy:
  - target:
      succeededIndexes: "0"
      whenTargetAchieved: terminate
...
```

> Maybe this is a place where we could consider having a list of targets / rules already, because I don't think we will be able to easily move the singleton to a list in the future.
> 
> Even if there is no clear use case for now maybe this could be justified by the foreseeable need for extensibility?

It sounds reasonable to me, but I would like to know what @deads2k @alculquicondor's concerns are and what we should provide extensibility.

Author: I discussed this API offline with @mimowo and @deads2k.
As a result of that discussion, we agree with using the following API scheme so that we can have flexibility for the future:

```yaml
...
  successPolicy:
    criteria:
    - succeededIndexes: "0"
      whenTargetAchieved: terminate
    - succeededIndexes: "1-9"
      whenTargetAchieved: terminate
...
```

Reviewer: Could that be mutated/changed?

Author: > Could that be mutated/changed?

No, it couldn't as well as podFailurePolicy. I don't think that we should make successPolicy mutable.

Reviewer 2: +1 to the suggestion above, as  its more consistent with the existing pod failure policy:

```yaml
podFailurePolicy:
    rules:
    - action: FailJob
      onExitCodes:
        containerName: main
        operator: In
        values: [42]
```

Author: Done.

Author: Done.

## Proposal

We propose new policies under which a job can be declared as succeeded.
Those policies can be modeled in the following:

1. An indexed job completes if a set of [x, y, z...] indexes are successful.
2. An indexed job completes if x or x% of indexes are successful.

### User Stories (Optional)

#### Story 1

As a machine-learning researcher, I run an indexed job which leaders are launched
as index=0 and workers are launched as index=1+.
I want to care about only the leaders when the result of job is evaluated.

In addition, we want to terminate running the rest of the pods if the leader index (index=0) is succeeded
because the workers often don't have any ways to terminate themselves due to launching daemon processes like ssh-server.

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
  - target:
      succeededIndexes: "0"
      whenTargetAchieved: terminate
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./sample"]
```

#### Story 2

> As a simulation researcher/engineer for fluid dynamics/biochemistry.

Reviewer 3: As someone who was a former researcher, I don't know if I see the value in this user story. Was this coming from an actual usecase?

If I was a chemist, I'd be running a series of simulations to plot a trajectory (or whatever) and I would want to know which jobs failed so I can resubmit those. If I had a workflow and my jobs were successful but still were running, I worry that this may be confusing to a user.

Maybe @vsoch can overrule me if she thinks differently.

Author: @kannon92 I built this story based on https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062#discussion_r1223434015.

Reviewer 3: I see. I guess the main thing is about observability and how a user will know which jobs are continuing and what to do if they retry or fail. I'm thinking that someone would use this job in a workflow and they would probably want to know failures (or pods that are still running).

Author: Here is a great comment from @soltysh :https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062/files#r1467756885

I think we can resolve observability by introducing a new condition, `Succeeded`, separate from completed.

@kannon92 WDYT?

Reviewer 3: So I think this feature is valuable without the continue field. I think there is a lot of risks with continue and I'm not sure the usecase is so strong at the moment. If there is a user need for it, someone can always propose an enhancement for it.

But I think a condition could help so I'm happy with the conclusion if others are.

Author: If it is possible, I still want to include `whenTargetAchieve=continue` in this KEP since we have stories 2 and 3.
So, if anyone doesn't have strong objections, I want to add a `continue`  feature.

Author: We decided to leave the discussion `whenTargetAchived=continue` on beta graduation.
So, successPolicy doesn't support `continue` in the alpha stage.

Reviewer 2: excellent, that simplifies a lot.

And I agree that this use case isn't very compeling.

Author: I marked a `continue` action as UNRESOLVED.

Author: Done.

Author: It makes sense.

2. Once some worker indexes (index=1+) are succeeded, I want to continue running the rest of the pods for sampling.

because succeeded leader index means that the whole simulation is succeeded,
and succeeded some worker indexes means that the minimum required value for sampling is satisfied.

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
  - target:
      count: 1
      index: 0
      whenTargetAchieved: terminate
  - target:
      count: 5
      index: "1-9"
      whenTargetAchieved: continue
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
        - name: job-container
          image: job-image
          command: ["./sample"]
```

### Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)

#### No support JobSuccessPolicy for the NonIndexed Job

As I described in [Non-Goals](#non-goals), we don't support the SuccessPolicy for the job with `NonIndexed` mode.

#### Interchangeability between concepts of "completed" and "succeeded"
In this KEP, we introduce the new `succeeded` concept, 
which is interchangeable with the existing `completed` concept.

> It means that if the job meets the dedicated successPolicy, the `Completed` condition is added to the job.  

Author: As @kannon92 mentions here: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062#discussion_r1467776240, Giving interchangeability to `completed` and `succeeded` might cause confusion. So I will update this KEP with a new condition, `succeeded` separate from `completed`.

cc: @alculquicondor @mimowo

> It means that if the job meets the dedicated successPolicy, the `Completed` condition is added to the job.  

Reviewer 9: It would be good to explore how the new condition is going to be used by the existing consumers and how it relates to the goals and user stories of this KEP.

> It means that if the job meets the dedicated successPolicy, the `Completed` condition is added to the job.  

Reviewer 5: I think the condition is a good idea to mark that the successPolicy is already achieved, but the job as a whole is not yet "Completed". I'm thinking of:
```
Type: Succeeded
Status: True
Reason: SuccessPolicyTargetAchieved
Message: ...
```
Then `Completed` is only set when all pods are done (as currently). I agree though it would be good to tie this back to the user stories. I suppose one way the the new condition could be useful is to give early feedback to the users that the minimal target is already achieved, then based on their budget or time they could either continue or kill the remaining pods.

> It means that if the job meets the dedicated successPolicy, the `Completed` condition is added to the job.  

Reviewer 4: If a Job can never change `Succeeded` from True to False (bar someone fiddling with its `.status` manually), then yes I support this.

If there's any action I can take that means the control plane indirectly changes `Succeeded` from True to False on any Job, then I think the condition needs a different name.

> It means that if the job meets the dedicated successPolicy, the `Completed` condition is added to the job.  

Author: > It would be good to explore how the new condition is going to be used by the existing consumers and how it relates to the goals and user stories of this KEP.

@atiratree Yes, you're right. I'm going to update this KEP.

> It means that if the job meets the dedicated successPolicy, the `Completed` condition is added to the job.  

Author: > If a Job can never change Succeeded from True to False (bar someone fiddling with its .status manually), then yes I support this.
> 
> If there's any action I can take that means the control plane indirectly changes Succeeded from True to False on any Job, then I think the condition needs a different name.

@sftim  That's a nice point. I think so too. I also think that the `Succeeded` condition shouldn't be updated `true` to `false`.  Thanks!

> It means that if the job meets the dedicated successPolicy, the `Completed` condition is added to the job.  

Author: Done.

> #### Surprising whenTargetAchieved behavior if whenTargetAchieved is not specified somewhere  

Author: > In general, I'd advice to set a specific terminated or continue a default policy for a target.

Yes, we're planning to default `terminated` action, as mentioned in an API comment. This note built based on the following review comment.

> Here, it looks more like a room for error. Say we have a default whenTargetAchieved: terminate, and the user has two targets, but only sets the whenTargetAchieved value for one, as continue. Then, it would be defaulted in the other target. As a result, it would have two different values. IMO this would rarely be the intention.

https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062#discussion_r1462132761

> #### Surprising whenTargetAchieved behavior if whenTargetAchieved is not specified somewhere  

Author: @mimowo I considered your above comment, again. 
So, since once the job meets one of the successPolicy, the other successPolicy is ignored, and, I guess that this surprise wouldn't happen. 

WDYT?

> #### Surprising whenTargetAchieved behavior if whenTargetAchieved is not specified somewhere  

Reviewer 2: The defaulting sets it to a particular policy, so the API is consistent.

Users can always misconfigure the API, but that's not a problem of the design. I would just remove this section.

> #### Surprising whenTargetAchieved behavior if whenTargetAchieved is not specified somewhere  

Author: SGTM
Thank you for the confirmation.

> #### Surprising whenTargetAchieved behavior if whenTargetAchieved is not specified somewhere  

Author: Done.

apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
  - target:
      count: 5
      whenTargetAchieved: continue
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
        - name: job-container
          image: job-image
          command: ["./sample"]
```

### Story 3

As a simulation researcher/engineer for fluid dynamics/biochemistry.
I want to mark the job as successful and to perform the matched `whenTargetAchieved` of `successPolicy`
when the job meets the one of following conditions:

1. Once the leader index (index=0) is succeeded, I want to terminate running the rest of the pods.
2. Once some worker indexes (index=1+) are succeeded, I want to continue running the rest of the pods for sampling.

because succeeded leader index means that the whole simulation is succeeded,
and succeeded some worker indexes means that the minimum required value for sampling is satisfied.

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
  - target:
      count: 1
      index: 0
      whenTargetAchieved: terminate
  - target:
      count: 5

>       index: "1-9"

Author: Good catch :)

>       index: "1-9"

Author: Done.

	// For example, if the completed indexes are 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7, they are
	// represented as "1,3-5,7".
	// 
	// +optional
	SucceededIndexes *string

	// Specifies the required number of indexes when .spec.completionMode = "Indexed".
	// Value can be an absolute number (ex: 5) when the job can be declared as succeeded.
	//
	// +optional
	SucceededCount *int

	// Specifies the action to be taken on the not finished (succeeded or failed) pods 
	// when the job achieved the requirements.
	// Possible values are:
	//
	// - Continue: indicates that all pods wouldn't be terminated.
	// - Terminate: indicates that not finished pods would be terminated.
	//
	// Default value is Terminate.
	WhenTargetAchieved WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy
}

// WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy specifies the action to be taken on the pods
// when the job achieved the requirements.
// +enum
type WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy string

const (
	// All pods wouldn't be terminated when the job reached successPolicy.
	ContinueWhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy = "Continue"

	// Not finished pods would be terminated when the job reached successPolicy.

> 	TerminateWhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy = "Terminate"

Author: I don't have strong objections since I'm not sure how we should be verbose.
So, if @deads2k is fine, I'm ok with a suggested API.

> 	TerminateWhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy = "Terminate"

Reviewer 6: Finding the line between terseness and clarity isn't science, but I prefer the shorter `Terminate` rather than longer phrases.  I would add qualifying phrases in cases where we need to differentiate two types of Terminate, but I don't think that's the case here.

> 	TerminateWhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy = "Terminate"

Reviewer 4: The shorter phrase means longer docs, because we have to make sure to teach the point clearly enough that very few people misunderstand it.

This looks confusing enough that I'd expect to see issues raised against the docs by people who didn't get it right first time. Even it most people get it, we have a lot of end users and a percentage might not.

> 	TerminateWhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy = "Terminate"

Reviewer 2: I'm with @sftim here. Maybe something shorter like: `TerminateRemainingPods`.

Not sure what is a good alternative to `Continue`.

> 	TerminateWhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy WhenTargetAchievedSuccessPolicy = "Terminate"

Author: @deads2k @alculquicondor @sftim Can we discuss the API name in the beta graduation stage? Because we dropped `whenCriterionAchieved` API from the alpha stage.

We can hold the `succeededIndexes` as []int typed that a job can be declared as succeeded.

```golang
// SuccessPolicyOnSucceededPods describes a Job can be succeeded based on succeeded pods.
type SuccessPolicyTarget struct {
	// Specifies a set of required indexes.
	// The job is declared as succeeded if a set of indexes are succeeded. 
	// The list of indexes must come within 0 to `.spec.completions` and
	// must not contain duplicates. At least one element is required. 
	// 
	// +optional
	SucceededIndexes []int
...
}
```

However, if we allow users to set all `succeededIndexes` (`0-10^5`) to `.spec.successPolicy.target.succeededIndexes`
and don't limit the number of list sizes, there are cases that the size of a job object is too big.

In the worst case, allowed all indexes (`0-10^5`) are added to `succeededIndexes`, and a `succeededIndexes` size
is `SUM[9*10^n*(n+1)]+2+6≈5.6656MiB`, where:
- `n` starts from `0` and goes up to `5`.
- `1` of `n+1` means a separator that indicates `,`.
- `2` is the sum of the index `0` and `,`.
- `6` is the size of indexes `10^5`.

So, if we select this alternative API design, we need to limit the size of `indexes`. 

> 

Reviewer 4: How about adding this:

> ### Match indexes using CEL
> 
> Use CEL to define which indexes are matched. For example:
>
> ```yaml
> ...
> spec:
>   parallelism: 7
>   completions: 7
>   successPolicy:
>     - target:
>         succeededCount: 1
>         indexMatchExpression: "index == (job.completions - 1)" # always the last index
>         whenTargetAchieved: terminate
> ```
>
> or
> 
> ```yaml
> ...
> spec:
>   parallelism: 42
 >  completions: 42
>   successPolicy:
>     - target:
>         succeededCount: 21 # exactly half
>         indexMatchExpression: "(index % 2) == 1" # odd numbers
>         whenTargetAchieved: continue
> ```

(imagine that the even numbered Pods do one kind of work that is valuable, but not essential, and the odd numbered Pods produce the actual result that I need)

---

Defining an alternative doesn't mean selecting it, but it does let us explain why we ruled it out.

Author: That's a good alternative. I will add this way here as a separate alternative.
Thanks.

Author: Done.

## Design Details

### Job API

We extend the Job API to set different policies by which a Job can be declared as succeeded.

```golang
type JobSpec struct {
	...
	// Specifies the policy when the job can be declared as succeeded.
	// If empty, the default behavior applies - the job is declared as succeeded
	// only when the number of succeeded pods equals to the completions.
	// These policies are evaluated in order, and the job meets one of the successPolicies,
	// other successPolicies are ignored.
	// In addition, the order of the successPolicies is immutable.
	//
	// This field is alpha-level. To use this field, you must enable the
	// `JobSuccessPolicy` feature gate (disable by default).
	// +optional
	// +listType=atomic
	SuccessPolicy []SuccessPolicy
}

// SuccessPolicy describes when a Job can be declared as succeeded based on the success of some indexes.
type SuccessPolicy struct {
	// Represents the requirement on the succeeded pods.
	// Each target must have at least one acceptance criterion of
	// "succeededIndexes" or "count".
	//
	// +optional
	Target *SuccessPolicyTarget
}

// SuccessPolicyTarget describes a Job can be succeeded based on succeeded indexes.

> type SuccessPolicyTarget struct {

Reviewer 10: @alculquicondor and I were just discussing: perhaps it would be useful to add an optional `Reason` field here, which would be applied to the JobCompleted condition when a SuccessPolicy triggers a Job completion. 

This could be useful for high level APIs built on top of the Job API (for example, JobSet https://sigs.k8s.io/jobset) to be able to distinguish between jobs marked completed for different reasons, in order to make more informed, efficient decisions about how to manage those jobs.

In addition, I am submitting a KEP soon for adding an optional `Reason` field to `PodFailurePolicyRule` (https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4443) in order to support certain JobSet failure policy use cases, so it may be useful to support this optional `Reason` field for both success and failure policies.

Author: It makes sense. The reason would be helpful.
Here is a new API design agreed with @deads2k:

```yaml
...
  successPolicy:
    criteria:
    - succeededIndexes: "0"
      whenTargetAchieved: terminate
    - succeededIndexes: "1-9"
      whenTargetAchieved: terminate
...
```

If we add a new field, `reason`, I can imagine the below API:

```yaml
...
  successPolicy:
    criteria:
    - succeededIndexes: "0"
      whenTargetAchieved: terminate
      reason: "foo" // when the job meets this criterion, this reason is applied to `Succeeded` condition.
    - succeededIndexes: "1-9"
      whenTargetAchieved: terminate
      reason: "bar" // when the job meets this criterion, this reason is applied to `Succeeded` condition.
...
```

@danielvegamyhre Does this make sense?

Reviewer: @tenzen-y I really like that, because if it trickles back into a status or condition, a consuming tool can parse that and give a human readable string back to the running user (and not an exit code or similar).

Author: @vsoch I agree with you. Anyway, `reason` field should be reviewed by @deads2k.

Author: @danielvegamyhre As I mentioned https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/122972#issuecomment-1924201946, we need to consider alternative approaches, and I don't think that we have enough time for discussions due to the deadline for the enhancement freeze.

So, I think that we should leave the `Reason` field on the beta graduation criterion.
@danielvegamyhre @mimowo @alculquicondor @deads2k WDYT?

Author: > Adding it later implies another feature gate. When @deads2k reviews the other KEP, he can probably give guidance of whether it's ok to add the exact same field here.

@alculquicondor @deads2k I see. If we handle the `Reason` field as another featureGate, we might need to track `Reason` feature in another issue.

BTW, we leave `whenCriteriaAchievd` field on the beta graduation. So, we should use another featureGate for `whenCriteriaAchievd`, right?

Reviewer 6: I'm fine with adding a `reason` for clarity.  To clear a up a potential misconception: we can add fields at a beta stage if we discover a need for them, but if we know in advance that we want a field it is important to add that in alpha so that feedback on the API we produce is accurate.

Author: It makes sense. I think we should add `reason` field in the alpha stage. So, I will update this KEP.

Author: @danielvegamyhre @deads2k @mimowo @alculquicondor I added a `successCriterionMetReasonSuffix` to this proposal.

Reviewer 10: +1, this looks fine to me.

Author: I'm closing this thread as the `reason` field is added.

- whether `Indexed` is specified in the `completionMode` field.
- whether the size of `succeededIndexes` is under 64Ki.
- exactly one of the enum `continue` or `terminate` is specified
in the `whenTargetAchieved`.
- whether the `succeededIndexes` field has a valid format.
- whether the `count` field has an absolute number.
- whether the target order hasn't changed.

In addition, when the `successPolicy` isn't nil, we validate the `target` isn't nil.

### Evaluation

The job-controller evaluates the successPolicies every in updating pod conditions in order,
and when the job meets one of successPolicies, other successPolicies are ignored.
After that, we add `Succeeded` condition instead of `Failed` condition to `.status.conditions` even if some indexes fail.

If a set of indexes are specified in the `indexes` field,
the job-controller evaluates `.status.completedIndexes` to see if a set of indexes is there.

If the number of indexes is specified in the `count`, 
the job-controller evaluates `.status.succeeded` to see if the value is `count` or more.

In addition, the job controller performs actions against running pods based on the value of `whenTargetAchieved`:

> - `continue`: Nothing. Running pods continues to run.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `continue`: Nothing. Running pods continue to run. But the job is declared succeeded once all pods terminate.
```

Author: Done.

#### The situations where successPolicy conflicts other terminating policies

The successPolicy has potential conflicts with other terminating policies such as the [pod failure policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/job/pod-failure-policy/)
, backoffLimit, and [backoffLimitPerIndex](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#backoff-limit-per-index)
in the following situations:

- when the job meets the successPolicy and some pod failure policies with the `FailJob` action.
- when the job meets the successPolicy and the number of failed pods exceeds `backoffLimit`.
- when the job meets the successPolicy and the number of failed pods per indexes exceeds `backoffLimitPerIndex` in all indexes.

To avoid the above conflicts, terminating policies are evaluated the first before successPolicies.

In addition, we replace [`finishedCondition *batchv1.JobCondition`](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/922fbbf5b70d461118dc03e4eb2eb2ddc8762481/pkg/controller/job/job_controller.go#L130)
with `finishedConditions []batchv1.JobCondition`. Then, when the job meets both a successPolicy 

> and terminating policies in the same reconcile cycle, we add `Failed` and `Succeeded` conditions to the `finishedCondition` and all pods are deleted.  

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should add both conditions ever.

It makes more sense to me that the Failed condition takes precedence.

Author: Actually, I discussed this offline with @mimowo and @deads2k.
Indeed, we agreed with disallowed `Succeeded=true`, `Failed=true`, and `Completed=false`.

Since I will update this section, you can check the details afterward.

Author: Done.

- [ ] (R) Production readiness review completed
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review approved
- [ ] "Implementation History" section is up-to-date for milestone
- [ ] User-facing documentation has been created in [kubernetes/website], for publication to [kubernetes.io]
- [ ] Supporting documentation—e.g., additional design documents, links to mailing list discussions/SIG meetings, relevant PRs/issues, release notes

[kubernetes.io]: https://kubernetes.io/
[kubernetes/enhancements]: https://git.k8s.io/enhancements
[kubernetes/kubernetes]: https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes
[kubernetes/website]: https://git.k8s.io/website

## Summary

This KEP extends the Job API to allow setting conditions under which an Indexed Job can be declared as succeeded.

## Motivation

There are cases where a batch workload requires an indexed job that want to care 
only about leader indexes in determining the success or failure of a Job,
for example MPI and PyTorch etc. This is currently not possible because the indexed job 
is marked as Completed only if all indexes succeeded.

> <<[UNRESOLVED @tenzen-y: Do we need a 'continue' action?]>>

Author: It makes sense. I will move `continue` API to the alternative section.

> <<[UNRESOLVED @tenzen-y: Do we need a 'continue' action?]>>

Author: Done.

when the job meets the one of following conditions:

1. Once the leader index (index=0) is succeeded, I want to terminate running the rest of the pods.
2. Once some worker indexes (index=1+) are succeeded, I want to continue running the rest of the pods for sampling.

because succeeded leader index means that the whole simulation is succeeded,
and succeeded some worker indexes means that the minimum required value for sampling is satisfied.

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
    criteria:
    - succeededCount: 1
      succeededIndexes: 0
      whenCriterionAchieved: terminate
    - succeededCount: 5
      succeededIndexes: "1-9"
      whenCriterionAchieved: continue
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
        - name: job-container
          image: job-image
          command: ["./sample"]
```

### Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)

#### No support JobSuccessPolicy for the NonIndexed Job

As I described in [Non-Goals](#non-goals), we don't support the SuccessPolicy for the job with `NonIndexed` mode.

> #### Different between "completed" and "succeeded"

Reviewer 5: Oh, I actually realize the condition still can be useful for inter-workings of the job_controller, to mark the the success criteria are met. So, I think we keep it in the first version API.

> #### Different between "completed" and "succeeded"

Author: I still think we need `Succeeded` condition for CronJob and allow users more observability.
Current Job's `Complete` condition means that the Job and all Job's pods are completed.
On the other hand, `Succeeded` means that the Job met successPolicy regardless of all pods are finalized.

> #### Different between "completed" and "succeeded"

Author: > Oh, I actually realize the condition still can be useful for inter-workings of the job_controller, to mark the the success criteria are met. So, I think we keep it in the first version API.

Yes, that's right.

> #### Different between "completed" and "succeeded"

Reviewer 5: Yes, let's keep it

> #### Different between "completed" and "succeeded"

Reviewer 5: But we may needed consider the `SuccessCriteriaMet` as better name. IMO this better corresponds to the naming with success policy + it avoids the confusion that so far `Succeess` and `Complete` are synonymes.

> #### Different between "completed" and "succeeded"

Author: As an alternative, I think that it is possible to adopt `SuccessCriteria` similar to `FailureTarget`.
@mimowo WDYT?

> #### Different between "completed" and "succeeded"

Reviewer 5: Yes, I think `SuccessCriteriaMet` would be analogy to `FailureTarget`. The `FailureTarget` condition is used to mark Job as doomed to be Failed, even though we still wait for pods to finish.

Analogously `SuccessCriteriaMet` would mark a Job as doomed to be "Complete", but we still wait for pods to finish.

> #### Different between "completed" and "succeeded"

Author: Oh, `SuccessCriteriaMet` sounds much more reasonable to me.
Thank you for clarifying the semantics :)

> #### Different between "completed" and "succeeded"

Author: @deads2k Let us know what you think.

> #### Different between "completed" and "succeeded"

Author: For now, I replaced "Succeeded" condition with "SuccessCriteriaMet".
If anyone doesn't agree with "SuccessCriteriaMet", we can revert this commit: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062/commits/f5a680349cf6379226c715f42edfc15313100048

The similar job conditions, `Completed` and `Succeeded`, are different in the following:

- `Completed` means that all pods completed, not failed.
- `Succeeded` means that the job meets the one of successPolicies.

So, the job could have both conditions, `Completed` and `Succeeded`.

#### The CronJob concurrentPolicy is not affected by JobSuccessPolicy
Even after introducing the JobSuccessPolicy, all CronJob concurrentPolicies work as before
since the JobSuccessPolicy doesn't change the semantics of the existing Job `Completed` condition 
and the Job declares succeeded by a new condition, `Succeeded`.

Specifically, the CronJob with `Forbid` concurrentPolicy created Jobs based on Job's `Completed` condition as before. 

> <<[UNRESOLVED @tenzen-y: A new CronJob concurrentPolicy, "ForbidUntilSuccessful"]>>

Author: Done.

	// more consecutive numbers are compressed and represented by the first and
	// last element of the series, separated by a hyphen.
	// For example, if the completed indexes are 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7, they are
	// represented as "1,3-5,7".
	// 
	// +optional
	SucceededIndexes *string

	// Specifies the required number of indexes when .spec.completionMode = "Indexed".
	// Value can be an absolute number (ex: 5) when the job can be declared as succeeded.
	//
	// +optional
	SucceededCount *int

	// Specifies the action to be taken on the not finished (succeeded or failed) pods 
	// when the job achieved the requirements.
	// Possible values are:
<<[UNRESOLVED @tenzen-y: Do we need a 'continue' action?]>>
	// - Continue indicates that all pods wouldn't be terminated. 
	//   However, the job meets both successPolicy and terminating policies (backoffLimit, 
	//   backoffLimitPerIndex, and podFailurePolicy, etc.), all job's pods would be deleted since 
	//   the terminating policies are respected rather than "whenCriterionAchieved: continue".
<<[/UNRESOLVED]>>
	// - Terminate indicates that not finished pods would be terminated.
	//
	// Default value is Terminate.

> 	WhenCriterionAchieved WhenCriterionAchievedSuccessPolicy

Author: It makes sense. I will remove the `whenCriteriaAchived` API to the alternative section.

> 	WhenCriterionAchieved WhenCriterionAchievedSuccessPolicy

Author: Done.

}

// WhenCriterionAchievedSuccessPolicy specifies the action to be taken on the pods
// when the job achieved the requirements.
// +enum
type WhenCriterionAchievedSuccessPolicy string

> const (

Author: Done.

- whether the criteria haven't changed.

In addition, when the `successPolicy` isn't nil, we validate the `criteria` isn't nil.

### Evaluation

The job-controller evaluates the successPolicies every in updating pod conditions in order,
and when the job meets one of successPolicies, other successPolicies are ignored.
After that, the job-controller adds a `Succeeded` condition instead of a `Failed` condition to `.status.conditions`.

If a set of indexes are specified in the `succeededIndexes` field,
the job-controller evaluates `.status.completedIndexes` to see if a set of indexes is there.

If the number of indexes is specified in the `succeededCount`,
the job-controller evaluates `.status.succeeded` to see if the value is `succeededCount` or more.

In addition, the job controller performs actions against running pods based on the value of `whenCriterionAchieved`:

- `terminate`: Not finished pods would be terminated by the job controller. Not finished pods means running or pending pods.

Finally, after all pods are finalized by the successPolicies with `whenCriterionAchieved`,
the job-controller adds a `Complete` condition to `.status.conditions`.

> <<[UNRESOLVED @tenzen-y: Do we need a 'continue' action?]>>

Author: Done.

- `continue`: Nothing. Running pods continue to run. But the job is declared succeeded once all pods terminate.
<<[/UNRESOLVED]>>

If any successPolicy isn't set, the job-controller adds both a `Succeeded` and a `Complete` conditions to the Job
after the job finished.

### Transition of "status.conditions"

When the job with `whenCriterionAchieved=terminate` is submitted, the job `status.conditions` transits in the following:

Note that the Job doesn't have an actual `Running` condition in the `status.conditions`.

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> Running
    Running --> Failed: Exceeded backoffLimit\n or Matched FailurePolicy
    Failed --> [*]
    Running --> Succeeded: Matched SuccessPolicy
    Succeeded --> Complete: All pods were terminated by \n"whenCriterionAchieved=terminate"
    Complete --> [*]
```

It means that the job's `.status.conditions` follows the following rules:  

- The job could have both `Succeeded=true` and `Complete=true` conditions.
- The job couldn't have both `Failed=true` and `Succeeded=true` conditions.
- The job couldn't have both `Failed=true` and `Complete=true` conditions.

> <<[UNRESOLVED @tenzen-y: Do we need a 'continue' action?]>>

Author: Done.

##### Integration tests

- Test scenarios:
  - enabling, disabling and re-enabling of the `JobSuccessPolicy` feature gate
  - handling of successPolicy when all indexes succeeded
  - handling of the `.spec.successPolicy.criteria.succeededIndexes` when some indexes fail
  - handling of the `.spec.successPolicy.criteria.succeededCount` when some remain pending
  - handling of successPolicy when some indexes of job with `backOffLimitPerIndex` fail

##### e2e tests

- Test scenarios:
  - handling of successPolicy when all indexes succeeded
  - handling of the `.spec.successPolicy.criteria.succeededIndexes` when some indexes fail
  - handling of the `.spec.successPolicy.criteria.succeededCount` when some indexes fail

### Graduation Criteria

#### Alpha

- Feature implemented behind the `JobSuccessPolicy` feature gate.
- Unit and integration tests passed as designed in [TestPlan](#test-plan).

#### Beta

- E2E tests passed as designed in [TestPlan](#test-plan).
- Added a new reasons to the existing `job_finished_total` metric in [Monitoring Requirements](#monitoring-requirements).
- Feature is enabled by default.

> - Gather feedback from developers.

Author: It makes sense. Thanks.

> - Gather feedback from developers.

Author: Done.

when the job meets the one of following conditions:

1. The case of the leader index (index=0) is succeeded
2. The case of some worker indexes (index=1+) are succeeded

Because succeeded leader index means that the whole simulation is succeeded,
and succeeded some worker indexes means that the minimum required value is satisfied.

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
    criteria:
    - succeededCount: 1
      succeededIndexes: 0
    - succeededCount: 5
      succeededIndexes: "1-9"
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
        - name: job-container
          image: job-image
          command: ["./sample"]
```

### Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)

#### No support JobSuccessPolicy for the NonIndexed Job

As I described in [Non-Goals](#non-goals), we don't support the SuccessPolicy for the job with `NonIndexed` mode.

#### Different between "complete" and "successCriteriaMet"
The similar job conditions, `Complete` and `SuccessCriteriaMet`, are different in the following:

- `Complete` means that all pods completed, not failed.

> - `SuccessCriteriaMet` means that the job meets the one of successPolicies.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- `SuccessCriteriaMet` means that the job meets at least one of successPolicies.
```
nit

we have a risk similar to [KEP-3850: Backoff Limits Per Index For Indexed Jobs](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/76dcd4f342cc0388feb085e685d4cc018ebe1dc9/keps/sig-apps/3850-backoff-limits-per-index-for-indexed-jobs#risks-and-mitigations).
So, we limit the size of `succeededIndexes` to 64Ki.

## Design Details

### Job API

We extend the Job API to set different policies by which a Job can be declared as succeeded.

```golang
type JobSpec struct {
	...
	// Specifies the policy when the job can be declared as succeeded.
	// If empty, the default behavior applies - the job is declared as succeeded
	// only when the number of succeeded pods equals to the completions.
	// The successPolicy is immutable.
	//
	// This field is alpha-level. To use this field, you must enable the
	// `JobSuccessPolicy` feature gate (disable by default).
	// +optional
	// +listType=atomic
	SuccessPolicy *SuccessPolicy
}

// SuccessPolicy describes when a Job can be declared as succeeded based on the success of some indexes.
type SuccessPolicy struct {
	// Represents the requirement on the succeeded pods.

> 	// Each criterion must have at least one acceptance criterion of

Reviewer 5: nit: this sentence can probably be described lower, for the SuccessPolicyCriterion type.

Author: Oh, it makes sense.

Author: Done.

> 	// "succeededIndexes" or "succeededCount".

Reviewer 5: nit: I would suggest rephrasing the comments a little. In particular, 
I think we don't need to mention the succeededIndexes or succeededCount 
at this level. Also, it would be nice to mention the new condition here.
This would be my proposal:

// Criteria represents the list of alternative criteria for declaring the
// job as successful before its completion. Once any of the criteria are
// met the "SucceessCriteriaMet" condition is added, and the
// remaining running pods are removed. The terminal state for such
// a job has the "Complete" condition.
//
// + optional

Author: Done.

	// These criteria are evaluated in order, and the job meets one of the criteria,
	// other criteria are ignored.
	// After the job meets one of the criteria, the remaining running pods are removed.
	//
	// +optional
	Criteria []SuccessPolicyCriterion
}

> // SuccessPolicyCriteria describes a Job can be succeeded based on succeeded indexes.

Reviewer 6: indicate that at least one of `SucceededIndexes` or `SucceededCount must be specified.

Author: Done.

> // SuccessPolicyCriteria describes a Job can be succeeded based on succeeded indexes.

Reviewer 5: nit: suggestion to rephrase.

// SuccessPolicyCriterion describes a criterion for declaring a Job as succeeded.
// Each criterion must have at least one of the SucceededIndexes or SucceededCount
// specified.

Author: Done.

type SuccessPolicyCriterion struct {
	// Specifies a set of required indexes when .spec.completionMode =
	// "Indexed" in a text format.

> 	// The job is declared as succeeded if a set of indexes are succeeded. 

Reviewer 5: nit: Just a wording proposal:

// SucceededIndexes specifies the set of indexes which need to be
// contained in the actual set of succeeded indexes for the job.
// The list of indexes must come within 0 to `.spec.completions` and ...

Author: Done.

	// The list of indexes must come within 0 to `.spec.completions` and
	// must not contain duplicates. At least one element is required. 
	// The indexes are represented as decimal integers
	// separated by commas. The numbers are listed in increasing order. Three or
	// more consecutive numbers are compressed and represented by the first and
	// last element of the series, separated by a hyphen.
	// For example, if the completed indexes are 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7, they are
	// represented as "1,3-5,7".
	// 
	// +optional
	SucceededIndexes *string

> 	// Specifies the required number of indexes when .spec.completionMode = "Indexed".

Reviewer 5: nit: rephrase proposal

// SucceededCount specifies the minimal size of the actual set of the
// actual set of succeeded indexes for the job.
// When specified it needs to be a positive integer.

Author: Done.

- Test scenarios:
  - enabling, disabling and re-enabling of the `JobSuccessPolicy` feature gate
  - handling of successPolicy when all indexes succeeded
  - handling of the `.spec.successPolicy.criteria.succeededIndexes` when some indexes remain pending
  - handling of the `.spec.successPolicy.criteria.succeededCount` when some indexes remain pending 
  - handling of successPolicy when some indexes of job with `backOffLimitPerIndex` fail

##### e2e tests

- Test scenarios:
  - handling of successPolicy when all indexes succeeded
  - handling of the `.spec.successPolicy.criteria.succeededIndexes` when some indexes remain pending
  - handling of the `.spec.successPolicy.criteria.succeededCount` when some indexes remain pending

### Graduation Criteria

#### Alpha

- Feature implemented behind the `JobSuccessPolicy` feature gate.
- Unit and integration tests passed as designed in [TestPlan](#test-plan).

#### Beta

- E2E tests passed as designed in [TestPlan](#test-plan).
- Added a new reasons to the existing `job_finished_total` metric in [Monitoring Requirements](#monitoring-requirements).
- Feature is enabled by default.
- Address all issues reported by users.

> - Decided whether we introduce a `whenCriterionAchived=continue` and `whenCriterionAchived=continueWithRecreations`.

Reviewer 6: This behavior has significant repercussion for both this immediate controller and fanout from there (cronjobs in tree and other consumers like UIs out of tree).  If `whenCriterionAchieved` comes back, we'll need a second alpha.

Author: SGTM. I will mention about the second alpha stage here.

Author: I added a note to "Possibility for the rest of running pods to continue running after the job meets the successPolicy".

Reviewer: As long as that is a choice / optional - for some use cases it defeats the purpose of having the success policy, where it's understood the other pods will continue (but you don't want them to when the specific pods of interest are complete).

Author: @vsoch I still believe that `whenTargetAchieved` is valuable, although there are some unresolved issues regarding the backward compatibility and compatibility for CronJob. Then, we don't have enough time to discuss the compatibility issues in the release v1.30 cycle since the KEP deadline will be this Friday.

So, I left this section "unresolved," and I believe that we can discuss the possibility of the "whenCriterionAcheived=continue" in the next release cycle (v1.31).

Reviewer 7: I agree with David here, the addition of that new field should happen before we transition to beta. Iow. one more alpha with additional field, and only in the next release transition to beta.

Author: > I agree with David here, the addition of that new field should happen before we transition to beta. Iow. one more alpha with additional field, and only in the next release transition to beta.

That makes sense.

Author: I added the optional second alpha stage.

- whether the specified indexes in the `succeededIndexes` and
  the number of indexes in the `succeededCount` don't exceed the value of `completions`.
- whether `Indexed` is specified in the `completionMode` field.
- whether the size of `succeededIndexes` is under 64Ki.
- whether the `succeededIndexes` field has a valid format.
- whether the `succeededCount` field has an absolute number.
- whether the criteria haven't changed.

In addition, when the `successPolicy` isn't nil, we validate the `criteria` isn't nil.

### Evaluation

The job-controller evaluates the successPolicies every in updating pod conditions in order,
and when the job meets one of successPolicies, other successPolicies are ignored.
After that, the job-controller adds a `SuccessCriteriaMet` condition instead of a `Failed` condition to `.status.conditions`.

If a set of indexes are specified in the `succeededIndexes` field,
the job-controller evaluates `.status.completedIndexes` to see if a set of indexes is there.

If the number of indexes is specified in the `succeededCount`,
the job-controller evaluates `.status.succeeded` to see if the value is `succeededCount` or more.

> In addition, the job controller performs actions against running pods based on the value of `whenCriterionAchieved`:

Reviewer 5: Let's drop mentions of `whenCriterionAchieved` to Alternatives

Author: Done.

This means that the terminating policies are respected rather than the successPolicies.

### Test Plan

[x] I/we understand the owners of the involved components may require updates to
existing tests to make this code solid enough prior to committing the changes necessary
to implement this enhancement.

##### Prerequisite testing updates

##### Unit tests

- Test cases:
  - tests for Defaulting and Validating
  - verify whether a job has a SuccessCriteriaMet condition if the job meets to successPolicy and some indexes fail.
  - verify whether a job has both complete and SuccessCriteriaMet conditions 
  if the job meets to successPolicy and all pods are terminated
  - verify whether a job has a failed condition if the job meets to both successPolicy and terminating policies
  in the same reconcile cycle

- `k8s.io/kubernetes/pkg/controller/job`: `2 February 2024` - `91.5%`
- `k8s.io/kubernetes/pkg/apis/batch/validation`: `2 February 2024` - `98.0%`

##### Integration tests

- Test scenarios:
  - enabling, disabling and re-enabling of the `JobSuccessPolicy` feature gate
  - handling of successPolicy when all indexes succeeded

>   - handling of the `.spec.successPolicy.criteria.succeededIndexes` when some indexes fail

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - handling of the `.spec.successPolicy.criteria.succeededIndexes` when some indexes remain pending
```
The concept of failed index is only introduced by backoffLimitPerIndex, and for that you have a dedicated point below

Author: Yes, you're right.

Author: Yes, you're right.

Author: Done.

  - handling of the `.spec.successPolicy.criteria.succeededCount` when some remain pending
  - handling of successPolicy when some indexes of job with `backOffLimitPerIndex` fail

##### e2e tests

- Test scenarios:
  - handling of successPolicy when all indexes succeeded

>   - handling of the `.spec.successPolicy.criteria.succeededIndexes` when some indexes fail

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - handling of the `.spec.successPolicy.criteria.succeededIndexes` when some indexes remain pending
```

Author: Nice catch!

Author: Done.

>   - handling of the `.spec.successPolicy.criteria.succeededCount` when some indexes fail

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - handling of the `.spec.successPolicy.criteria.succeededCount` when some indexes remain pending
```

Author: Done.

because the workers often don't have any ways to terminate themselves due to launching daemon processes like ssh-server.

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
    criteria:
    - succeededIndexes: "0"
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./sample"]
```

#### Story 2

As a simulation researcher/engineer for fluid dynamics/biochemistry.
I want to mark the job as successful and terminate the lingering pods
when the job meets the one of following conditions:

1. The case of the leader index (index=0) is succeeded
2. The case of some worker indexes (index=1+) are succeeded

Because succeeded leader index means that the whole simulation is succeeded,
and succeeded some worker indexes means that the minimum required value is satisfied.

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
    criteria:
    - succeededCount: 1
      succeededIndexes: 0
    - succeededCount: 5

>       succeededIndexes: "1-9"

Reviewer 2: this means that at least 5 indexes from 1 to 9 need to finish?

	// other criteria are ignored.
	//
	// +optional
	Criteria []SuccessPolicyCriterion
}

// SuccessPolicyCriteria describes a criterion for declaring a Job as succeeded.
// Each criterion must have at least one of the "succeededIndexes" or "succeededCount" specified.
type SuccessPolicyCriterion struct {
	// SuccessPolicyCriterion specifies the set of indexes 
	// which need to be contained in the actual set of succeeded indexes for the job.
	// The list of indexes must come within 0 to ".spec.completions" and
	// must not contain duplicates. At least one element is required. 
	// The indexes are represented as decimal integers
	// separated by commas. The numbers are listed in increasing order. Three or
	// more consecutive numbers are compressed and represented by the first and
	// last element of the series, separated by a hyphen.
	// For example, if the completed indexes are 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7, they are
	// represented as "1,3-5,7".
	// 
	// +optional
	SucceededIndexes *string

	// SucceededCount specifies the minimal size of the actual set of the succeeded indexes
	// for the job.
	// When specified it needs to be positive integer.
	//
	// +optional

> 	SucceededCount *int

Reviewer 2: If this is optional, what does it mean if I don't set it?

Can I have the following?

```yaml
- succeededIndexes: 0
```

or

```yaml
succeededCount: 1
```
?

Reviewer 2: Yes, that matches my expectations. It's just not clear from the API description about what is the interpretation when one field is left null.

Author: Let me update this API comment.

Author: Done.

	
	// SuccessCriterionMetReasonSuffix specifies the CamelCase suffix of the reason for the "SuccessCriteriaMet" condition.
	// Once the job meets this criterion, "JobSuccessPolicy" and the specified suffix is combined with "As".

> 	// For example, if specified suffix is "LeaderSucceeded", it is represented as "JobSuccessPolicyAsLeaderSucceeded".

Reviewer 6: I think putting this in the message is better than in the Reason so the user has more flexibility, but still gets the information they expect out of it.

Author: For end-users, it makes sense, but the Reason seems to be useful when we specify the criteria to mark CustomJob (third part CRDs) succeeded (ex. JobSet) via Job API.

Here is a JobsSet FailurePolicy use case: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/jobset/pull/381/files#r1460001639

@deads2k WDYT?

Reviewer 6: Reasons are encouraged to be machine readable and have relatively tight validation compared to messages.  (see https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/staging/src/k8s.io/apimachinery/pkg/apis/meta/v1/types.go#L1523)

While there is some flexibility, allowing the user to define their own details about success or failure seems better suited `Message`

Author: It sounds much more reasonable. I will replace `SuccessCriterionMetReasonSuffix` with `SuccessCriterionMetAdditionlMessage`. Thank you!

Reviewer 2: -1 to message
The point is to make this machine readable.

Author: cc: @danielvegamyhre @alculquicondor

Reviewer 2: Yeah, please don't set a message.

Author: @deads2k @alculquicondor @danielvegamyhre I updated the story 3: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062/commits/44387936f1417cda11e92e9d5c0634099e667c9d

Reviewer 6: With the update to use this as the entire reason, it's no longer merging field responsibility.  I'm not confident that someone could author a re-useable problem based a value that will vary between jobs it is consuming, but the API and ownership are clear.

Reviewer 5: I actually slightly prefer to let the users specify only the suffix for the reason. It will support the use case for machine matching. Yet, the reason will clearly indicate it was due to SucceessPolicy. IMO, this can be handy if a job is debugged by someone else than the user who supplied the reasons.  

Anyway, it would be good to align the approach with https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4479.

Author: > IMO, this can be handy if a job is debugged by someone else than the user who supplied the reasons.

I agree that the suffix would be helpful, but it seems that we don't allow the reason field to have merging field responsibility. If we truly want to have suffixes, it seems that the message would be better since the message is more flexible rather than reason, but since we want to give configurable in the machine-readable field, not human-readable field, we shouldn't' give configurable to the message field.

It means that the current approach seems (the entire reason) would be better.

Reviewer 5: > With the update to use this as the entire reason, it's no longer merging field responsibility. 

Gotcha, indeed adding the suffix the have two responsibilities in the field: being human and machine readable. However, one can say the field already merges these two responsibilities. Having said that, I'm ok with either way.

Author: We will discuss `SetSuccessCriteriaMetReason` when moving to the second alpha stage.

So, I'm closing this now.

	//
	// +optional

> 	SuccessCriterionMetReasonSuffix *string

Reviewer 2: Can it be the whole reason, as opposed to a suffix?

Reviewer 2: `SetConditionReason` would address the first concern.

A suffix just makes it harder to process from another controller (or another API). 

See for example how JobSet plans to use the reason https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/jobset/pull/381/files#diff-95ff3f969c4dd0a07a5d8082df42bcb6f8f985e07bbe517b306635e397b4fca2R99

The user would have to remember to set `XYZ` in the Job spec, but `PodFailurePolicyXYZ` in the Jobset spec.

Author: Uhm, I agree with decreasing the value to add this to reason if we add a prefix since the controller needs to divide reasons by a separator (here is "As").

I agree that to make it more machine-readable, `SetConditionReason` would be better.

Author: I updated this API with `SetSuccessCriteriaMetReason`.

- whether the `succeededCount` field has an absolute number.
- whether the criteria haven't changed.
- whether the `successCriterionMetReasonSuffix` filed has a valid CamelCase format.

In addition, when the `successPolicy` isn't nil, we validate the `criteria` isn't nil.

### Evaluation

The job-controller evaluates the successPolicies follow the below rules in order every when pod conditions are updated:

- `succeededIndexes`: the job-controller evaluates `.status.completedIndexes` to see if a set of indexes is there.
- `succeededCount`: the job-controller evaluates `.status.succeeded` to see if the value is `succeededCount` or more.

After that, the job-controller adds a `SuccessCriteriaMet` condition instead of a `Failed` condition to `.status.conditions`
and the job-controller terminates still running pods. At that time, if the `successCriterionMetReasonSuffix` is specified,
the job-controller adds the `JobSuccessPolicy` and the specified suffix combined with `As` to the `reason` field.
In others, only `JobSuccessPolicy` is added to the `reason` field.

Note that when the job meets one of successPolicies, other successPolicies are ignored.

> Finally, the job-controller adds a `Complete` condition to `.status.conditions`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, once all pods have terminated, the job-controller adds a `Complete` condition to `.status.conditions`.
```

Author: Done.

    Complete --> [*]
```

It means that the job's `.status.conditions` follows the following rules:  

- The job could have both `SuccessCriteriaMet=true` and `Complete=true` conditions.
- The job couldn't have both `Failed=true` and `SuccessCriteriaMet=true` conditions.
- The job couldn't have both `Failed=true` and `Complete=true` conditions.

#### The situations where successPolicy conflicts other terminating policies

The successPolicy has potential conflicts with other terminating policies such as the [pod failure policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/job/pod-failure-policy/)
, backoffLimit, and [backoffLimitPerIndex](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#backoff-limit-per-index)
in the following situations:

- when the job meets the successPolicy and some pod failure policies with the `FailJob` action.
- when the job meets the successPolicy and the number of failed pods exceeds `backoffLimit`.
- when the job meets the successPolicy and the number of failed pods per indexes exceeds `backoffLimitPerIndex` in all indexes.

To avoid the above conflicts, terminating policies are evaluated the first before successPolicies.

> This means that the terminating policies are respected rather than the successPolicies.

Reviewer 2: what if we already added `SuccessCriteriaMet=true`?
Would we still evaluate failure policies?

Reviewer 2: Let me give an example:
I have a success policy `- succeededIndexes: 0`, and a failure policy matching exit code 1.
Index 0 terminates successfully. So at this point we add `SuccessCriteriaMet=true`, and delete the remaining running pods.
Imagine that one of these pods terminates with exit code 1.
What happens? Will the Job be declared Completed or Failed?

Author: @alculquicondor That's a good question.
Actually, I talked about the similar situations with @mimowo and @deads2k.
As a result, we agreed that the status (successCriteriaMet vs Failed) must never switch.

Because switching status would bring confusion to systems, which depends on Job API.

Reviewer 2: ok, so once `SuccessCriteriaMet=true`, the Job will end with `Complete=true`, even if later pods could potentially match the failure policy.

That is ok with me. But the KEP contents don't make it very clear.

Author: > That is ok with me. But the KEP contents don't make it very clear.

It makes sense. I will add it to this KEP.

Author: Done.

  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
    criteria:
    - succeededCount: 1
      succeededIndexes: 0
    - succeededCount: 5
      succeededIndexes: "1-9"
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
        - name: job-container
          image: job-image
          command: ["./sample"]
```

#### Story 3

As a developer of CustomJob API built with Job API like JobSet, I want to implement the reconcile logic so that
the controller can change the actions based on the reason why the job has been succeeded.

So, it should be included in the `reason` field instead of `message` field since the reason field should be machine-readable. 

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
    criteria:
    - succeededIndexes: "0"
      setSuccessCriterionMetReason: "LeaderSucceeded"
    - succeededIndexes: "1-9"
      setSuccessCriterionMetReason: "WorkersSucceeded"
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
        - name: job-container
          image: job-image
          command: ["./sample"]
status:
  conditions:
  - type: "SuccessCriteriaMet"
    status: "True"

>     reason: "JobSuccessPolicyAsLeaderSucceeded"

Reviewer 6: if it's no longer a suffix, this needs updating.

Author: Sorry, this is my bad. I will update this.

Author: Done.

	// other criteria are ignored.
	//
	// +optional
	Criteria []SuccessPolicyCriterion
}

// SuccessPolicyCriteria describes a criterion for declaring a Job as succeeded.
// Each criterion must have at least one of the "succeededIndexes" or "succeededCount" specified.
type SuccessPolicyCriterion struct {
	// SuccessPolicyCriterion specifies the set of indexes 
	// which need to be contained in the actual set of succeeded indexes for the job.
	// The list of indexes must come within 0 to ".spec.completions" and
	// must not contain duplicates. At least one element is required. 
	// The indexes are represented as decimal integers
	// separated by commas. The numbers are listed in increasing order. Three or
	// more consecutive numbers are compressed and represented by the first and
	// last element of the series, separated by a hyphen.
	// For example, if the completed indexes are 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7, they are
	// represented as "1,3-5,7".
	// 
	// +optional
	SucceededIndexes *string

	// SucceededCount specifies the minimal size of the actual set of the succeeded indexes
	// for the job.
	// When specified it needs to be positive integer.
	//
	// +optional

> 	SucceededCount *int

Reviewer 5: Somehow I assumed they are mutually exclusive, such as `onExitCodes` and `onPodConditions` in the pod failure policy. 

If they are not mutually exclusive we need to clarify how to interpret interpret `succeededIndexes` together with `SucceededCount`. 

I can see two interpretations
A. simple logical AND 
B. `succeededCount` defines the expected number of succeeded indexes, but only within `succeededIndexes`

Initially, I thought we go with (A.) but in that case it never makes sense to specify `succeededCount<|succeededIndexes|`, which is done is story 2 & 3.

(B.) is ok for me, but then I would suggest:
1. adjust the API comment, maybe:
```
// SucceededCount specifies the minimal required size of the actual set of the succeeded indexes
// for the job. When SucceededCount is used along with SucceededIndexes, then the check is 
// constrained only to the set of indexes specified by SucceededIndexes.
```
2. add validation rule, that `SucceededCount <= |SucceededIndexes|`. Otherwise it would never be satisfied.

Author: That's a good point.

> If they are not mutually exclusive we need to clarify how to interpret interpret succeededIndexes together with SucceededCount.
> 
> I can see two interpretations
> A. simple logical AND
> B. succeededCount defines the expected number of succeeded indexes, but only within succeededIndexes
> 
> Initially, I thought we go with (A.) but in that case it never makes sense to specify succeededCount<|succeededIndexes|, which is done is story 2 & 3.

You' right. If we specify both `succeededCount` and `succeededIndexes`, those parameters must be `succeededCount<|succeededIndexes|`. I will apply your suggestions to API comments and validations.

Author: Done.

Author: @mimowo @soltysh I applied @mimowo's suggestions. PTAL.

	
	// SetSuccessCriterionMetReason specifies the CamelCase reason for the "SuccessCriteriaMet" condition.
	// Once the job meets this criterion, the specified reason is set to the "status.reason".
	// For example, if specified suffix is "LeaderSucceeded", it is represented as "JobSuccessPolicyAsLeaderSucceeded".
	//

> 	// +optional

Reviewer 6: What will the reason be if this field is missing?

Author: The default is "JobSuccessPolicy". I will update this comment.

Author: Done.

#### No support JobSuccessPolicy for the NonIndexed Job

As I described in [Non-Goals](#non-goals), we don't support the SuccessPolicy for the job with `NonIndexed` mode.

#### Different between "complete" and "successCriteriaMet"
The similar job conditions, `Complete` and `SuccessCriteriaMet`, are different in the following:

- `Complete` means that all pods completed, not failed.
- `SuccessCriteriaMet` means that the job meets at least one of successPolicies.

So, the job could have both conditions, `Complete` and `SuccessCriteriaMet`.

#### The CronJob concurrentPolicy is not affected by JobSuccessPolicy
Even after introducing the JobSuccessPolicy, all CronJob concurrentPolicies work as before
since the JobSuccessPolicy doesn't change the semantics of the existing Job `Complete` condition 
and the Job declares succeeded by a new condition, `SuccessCriteriaMet`.

Specifically, the CronJob with `Forbid` concurrentPolicy created Jobs based on Job's `Complete` condition as before.

#### Status never switch from "successCriteriaMet" to "failed"
Switching the status from `successCriteriaMet` to "failed" would bring the confusions to the systems,
which depends on the Job API.

> So, the status never switch `sucessCriterionMet` to `failed` at any time.

Author: > So you're planning to always report Complete when SuccessCriteriaMet is true upon finish?

Yes, that's right. I will update this note.

> So, the status never switch `sucessCriterionMet` to `failed` at any time.

Author: Actually, I mentioned this in "The situations where successPolicy conflicts other terminating policies" section. So, I moved the description to here.

> So, the status never switch `sucessCriterionMet` to `failed` at any time.

Author: Done.

	// only when the number of succeeded pods equals to the completions.
	// Specified it must be immutable and works only for the Indexed jobs.
	//
	// This field is alpha-level. To use this field, you must enable the
	// `JobSuccessPolicy` feature gate (disable by default).
	// +optional
	// +listType=atomic
	SuccessPolicy *SuccessPolicy
}

// SuccessPolicy describes when a Job can be declared as succeeded based on the success of some indexes.
type SuccessPolicy struct {
	// Criteria represents the list of alternative criteria for declaring the jobs 
	// as successful before its completion. Once any of the criteria are met,
	// the "SuccessCriteriaMet" condition is added, and the lingering pods are removed.
	// The terminal state for such a job has the "Complete" condition.
	// Additionally, these criteria are evaluated in order; Once the job meets one of the criteria,
	// other criteria are ignored.
	//
	// +optional
	Criteria []SuccessPolicyCriterion
}

// SuccessPolicyCriteria describes a criterion for declaring a Job as succeeded.
// Each criterion must have at least one of the "succeededIndexes" or "succeededCount" specified.

> type SuccessPolicyCriterion struct {

Author: I assume that the "Criteria []SuccessPolicyCriterion" is a set of multiple `SuccessPolicyCriterion`, but I'm ok with either name.

@soltysh Do you prefer "SuccessPolicyCriteria"?

> type SuccessPolicyCriterion struct {

Reviewer 2: TIL that criterion is the singular for criteria :)

But maybe it makes more sense to go with `SuccessPolicyRule` and field name `rules`, to follow the same names as the PodFailurePolicy.

> type SuccessPolicyCriterion struct {

Author: Originally posted by @alculquicondor 

_I like `SuccessCriteriaMet`, but we already have `FailureTarget`. Maybe we should name this `SuccessTarget` for consistency._

https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062#discussion_r1480396466

> type SuccessPolicyCriterion struct {

Author: > TIL that criterion is the singular for criteria :)

Yes, I meant what you said.

@alculquicondor I think that both API suffixes have pros/cons due to the following reasons:

- combinations of `SuccessPolicyRule` and `SuccessTarget`:
  - pros: These have consistency with `PodFailurePolicy`.
  - cons: These are less accurate than "combinations of `SuccessPolicyCriterion` and `SuccessCriterionMet`".

- combinations of `SuccessPolicyCriterion` and `SuccessCriterionMet`:
  - pros: These don't have consistency with `PodFailurePolicy`.
  - cons: These are more accurate than "combinations of `SuccessPolicyRule` and `SuccessTarget`"

TBH, I'm not sure which API names should be better 🧐 
@deads2k @soltysh Please let me know which API names would be better.

> type SuccessPolicyCriterion struct {

Reviewer 2: I think it should be fine to leave what you have and continue the discussion after the enhancements freeze, as the overall idea won't change.

> type SuccessPolicyCriterion struct {

Author: That makes sense to me.
@soltysh Does it make sense?

> type SuccessPolicyCriterion struct {

Author: For now, I replaced `SuccessCriterion` with `SuccessCriteria`.

	// must not contain duplicates. At least one element is required. 
	// The indexes are represented as decimal integers
	// separated by commas. The numbers are listed in increasing order. Three or
	// more consecutive numbers are compressed and represented by the first and
	// last element of the series, separated by a hyphen.
	// For example, if the completed indexes are 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7, they are
	// represented as "1,3-5,7".
	// When this field is null, this field doesn't default to any value
	// and is never evaluated at any time.
	// 
	// +optional
	SucceededIndexes *string

	// SucceededCount specifies the minimal size of the actual set of the succeeded indexes
	// for the job.
	// When this field is null, this field doesn't default to any value
	// and is never evaluated at any time.
	// When specified it needs to be a positive integer.
	//
	// +optional
	SucceededCount *int
	
	// SetSuccessCriterionMetReason specifies the CamelCase reason for the "SuccessCriteriaMet" condition.
	// Once the job meets this criterion, the specified reason is set to the "status.reason".
	// The default value is "JobSuccessPolicy".
	//
	// +optional

> 	SetSuccessCriterionMetReason *string

Author: IIRC, the JobSet wants to support configurable actions based on Job-level successPolicy reason here: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/jobset/blob/45429d558afa45813fc19c86991b13a17470b694/api/jobset/v1alpha2/jobset_types.go#L181

but there is no implementation: 

So, I believe that we should include the `reason` field in the alpha stage.
WDYT? @alculquicondor @ahg-g @danielvegamyhre

> 	SetSuccessCriterionMetReason *string

Reviewer 6: > I'd argue against this field, so far we've fully controller the reason field, and I don't see strong reasons to expose that to users. At least for alpha, I'd skip it, if there are strong arguments supporting this addition, we can consider that before beta.

I found this weird too, but @ahg-g provided a snippet of a JobSet API for handling of job coordination by a single entity that controls this field and the jobset field at the same time.

> 	SetSuccessCriterionMetReason *string

Author: Let me move `setSuccessCriterionMetReason` to the alternative.
And then let me add this to the beta graduation criteria.

> 	SetSuccessCriterionMetReason *string

Reviewer 2: SGTM. An argument can be made that there can be multiple failure criteria, but likely only one success criteria. So there is less incentive for a success reason.

> 	SetSuccessCriterionMetReason *string

Author: Done.

> 	SetSuccessCriterionMetReason *string

Reviewer 10: Sounds good, as @ahg-g mentioned the proposal for the optional Reason field in the PodFailurePolicyRule (#4479) is what we have a concrete use case for in JobSet; the proposal for an analogous field in the success policy was based on theoretical use cases and a desire to have the Job success and failure policy features be somewhat aligned / have similar knobs.

}
...

// These are valid conditions of a job.
const (
	// JobSuccessCriteriaMet means the job has been succeeded.
	JobSucceessCriteriaMet JobConditionType = "SuccessCriteriaMet"
	...
)
```

Moreover, we validate the following constraints for the `criteria`:
- whether the specified indexes in the `succeededIndexes` and
  the number of indexes in the `succeededCount` don't exceed the value of `completions`.
- whether `Indexed` is specified in the `completionMode` field.
- whether the size of `succeededIndexes` is under 64Ki.
- whether the `succeededIndexes` field has a valid format.
- whether the `succeededCount` field has an absolute number.
- whether the criteria haven't changed.
- whether the `setSuccessCriterionMetReason` filed has a valid CamelCase format.

In addition, when the `successPolicy` isn't nil, we validate the `criteria` isn't nil.

### Evaluation

> The job-controller evaluates the successPolicies follow the below rules in order every when pod conditions are updated:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Every time the pod conditions are updated, the job-controller evaluates the successPolicies following the rules in order:
```
I think that's what you're trying to say here :sweat_smile:

Author: Yea, that's right. Your suggestions are much clearer :)

Author: Done.

- `succeededIndexes`: the job-controller evaluates `.status.completedIndexes` to see if a set of indexes is there.
- `succeededCount`: the job-controller evaluates `.status.succeeded` to see if the value is `succeededCount` or more.

After that, the job-controller adds a `SuccessCriteriaMet` condition instead of a `Failed` condition to `.status.conditions`

> and the job-controller terminates the lingering pods. At that time, if the `setSuccessCriterionMetReason` is specified,

Reviewer 7: If the default action (for now) is to terminate, I'd like to make this explicit in the goals section more and in the description of `SuccessPolicy` type. To make sure that readers of this document and the API are clear about how this works, even at alpha.

Author: It makes sense.

Author: Done.

the job-controller sets the specified reason to the `status.reason` field.
In others, only `JobSuccessPolicy` is set to the `status.reason` field.

Note that when the job meets one of successPolicies, other successPolicies are ignored.

Finally, once all pods have terminated, the job-controller adds a `Complete` condition to `.status.conditions`.

If any successPolicy isn't set, the job-controller adds both a `SuccessCriteriaMet` and a `Complete` conditions to the Job
after the job finished.

### Transition of "status.conditions"

When the job with successPolicies is submitted, the job `status.conditions` transits in the following:
Note that the Job doesn't have an actual `Running` condition in the `status.conditions`.

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> Running
    Running --> Failed: Exceeded backoffLimit\n or Matched FailurePolicy
    Failed --> [*]
    Running --> SuccessCriteriaMet: Matched SuccessPolicy
    SuccessCriteriaMet --> Complete: All pods were terminated by successPolicies
    Complete --> [*]
```

It means that the job's `.status.conditions` follows the following rules:  

- The job could have both `SuccessCriteriaMet=true` and `Complete=true` conditions.

> - The job couldn't have both `Failed=true` and `SuccessCriteriaMet=true` conditions.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- The job can't have both `Failed=true` and `SuccessCriteriaMet=true` conditions.
```

Author: Done.

> - The job couldn't have both `Failed=true` and `Complete=true` conditions.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- The job can't have both `Failed=true` and `Complete=true` conditions.
```

Author: Done.

#### The situations where successPolicy conflicts other terminating policies

The successPolicy has potential conflicts with other terminating policies such as the [pod failure policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/job/pod-failure-policy/)
, backoffLimit, and [backoffLimitPerIndex](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#backoff-limit-per-index)
in the following situations:

- when the job meets the successPolicy and some pod failure policies with the `FailJob` action.
- when the job meets the successPolicy and the number of failed pods exceeds `backoffLimit`.
- when the job meets the successPolicy and the number of failed pods per indexes exceeds `backoffLimitPerIndex` in all indexes.

> To avoid the above conflicts, terminating policies are evaluated the first before successPolicies.

Reviewer 7: :+1:

section for discussion points.
- Decided whether we introduce a new CronJob concurrentPolicy, `ForbidUntilJobSuccessful`.
Please see the [Possibility for introducing a new CronJob concurrentPolicy, "ForbidUntilJobSuccessful"](#possibility-for-introducing-a-new-cronjob-concurrentpolicy-forbiduntiljobsuccessful)
section for more details.

#### GA

- No negative feedback.

### Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy

- Upgrade
  - If the feature gate is enabled, `JobSuccessPolicy` are allowed to use only.
  - If the feature gate is enabled without `JobSuccessPolicy`, 
  the default values will be applied to a job object.
  - Even if the feature gate is enabled, the Job controller doesn't update
  `.status.conditions` in already finished jobs.
- Downgrade
  - Previously configured values will be ignored, and the job will be marked
  as completed only when all indexes succeed.
  - the Job controller doesn't update `.status.conditions` in already finished jobs.

### Version Skew Strategy

The apiserver's version should be consistent with the kube-controller-manager version,

> or this feature will not work.

Reviewer 7: You can't guarantee that.

Author: It makes sense. I guess that we can put the same description as "BackoffLimitPerIndex".

Author: Done.

## Production Readiness Review Questionnaire

### Feature Enablement and Rollback

###### How can this feature be enabled / disabled in a live cluster?

- [x] Feature gate (also fill in values in `kep.yaml`)
  - Feature gate name: JobSuccessPolicy
  - Components depending on the feature gate:
    - kube-apiserver
    - kube-controller-manager

###### Does enabling the feature change any default behavior?

> No.

Reviewer 7: Can you be more specific why no? For example:

The default behavior of a job stays the same. The newly added field is optional and has to be explicitly set by the user to use this new feature.

Author: Done.

because the `.status.completedIndexes` won't be updated.

###### What are other known failure modes?

None.

###### What steps should be taken if SLOs are not being met to determine the problem?

If a successPolicy isn't respected even though the job doesn't match other policies 
such as a [pod failure policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/job/pod-failure-policy/) and backoffLimit:

- Check reachability between Kubernetes components.
- Consider increasing the logging level to trace when the issues occur.
- Check the job controller's `job_sync_duration_seconds` metric to check if the job controller's processing duration increases. 

If many requests are rejected, re-queued many times or increased the job controller's processing duration,
consider tuning the parameters for [APF](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/flow-control/).

## Implementation History
 
- 2023.06.06: This KEP is ready for review.
- 2023.06.09: API design is updated.
- 2023.10.03: API design is updated.

## Drawbacks

Adds more complexity to the criteria to be terminated Job.

## Alternatives

### Relax a validation for completions

> Currently, a job is restricted `.spec.completion!=nil`.

Reviewer 7: Not quite true, you can create non-indexed job w/o specifying completions, this allows to mark the job as completed when first pod succeeds. So it'd be good to make it clear that this only applies for indexed jobs.

[kubernetes.io]: https://kubernetes.io/
[kubernetes/enhancements]: https://git.k8s.io/enhancements
[kubernetes/kubernetes]: https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes
[kubernetes/website]: https://git.k8s.io/website

## Summary

This KEP extends the Job API to allow setting conditions under which an Indexed Job can be declared as succeeded.

## Motivation

There are cases where a batch workload requires an indexed job that want to care 
only about leader indexes in determining the success or failure of a Job,
for example MPI and PyTorch etc. This is currently not possible because the indexed job 
is marked as Completed only if all indexes succeeded.

Some third-party frameworks have implemented success policy.

- [Kubeflow Training Operator](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/training)
- [Flux Operator](https://flux-framework.org/flux-operator/)
- [JobSet](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/jobset/)

### Goals

- Allow to mark a job as a `Succeeded` according to a declared policy.
- Once the job meets the successPolicy, the lingering pods are terminated.

### Non-Goals

> - Change the existing behavior of `NonIndexed` mode.
> - Change the existing behavior of `Indexed` mode without a SuccessPolicy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Change the existing behavior of Jobs without a SuccessPolicy.
```

This summarizes it

Author: SGTM

Author: Done.

- Support SuccessPolicy for the job with `NonIndexed` mode: The SuccessPolicy can be theoretically supported for the job with `NonIndexed` mode. 
However, we don't work on the job with `NonIndexed` mode in the first iteration since there aren't any effective use cases for the NonIndexed job.

## Proposal

We propose new policies under which a job can be declared as succeeded.
Those policies can be modeled in the following:

1. An indexed job completes if a set of [x, y, z...] indexes are successful.
2. An indexed job completes if x of indexes are successful.

> Then, when the job meets one of the success policies, a new condition, `SuccessCriteriaMet,` is added.

Reviewer 2: I like `SuccessCriteriaMet`, but we already have `FailureTarget`. Maybe we should name this `SuccessTarget` for consistency.

Author: I sounds reasonable to me, but I want to discuss the API name here: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062#discussion_r1479725088

Because we can discuss it in a single thread.

Author: We decided to re-consider the API name in the API PR.

  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
        - name: job-container
          image: job-image
          command: ["./sample"]
```

### Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)

#### No support JobSuccessPolicy for the NonIndexed Job

As I described in [Non-Goals](#non-goals), we don't support the SuccessPolicy for the job with `NonIndexed` mode.

#### Different between "complete" and "successCriteriaMet"
The similar job conditions, `Complete` and `SuccessCriteriaMet`, are different in the following:

- `Complete` means that all pods completed, not failed.
- `SuccessCriteriaMet` means that the job meets at least one of successPolicies.

So, the job could have both conditions, `Complete` and `SuccessCriteriaMet`.

#### The CronJob concurrentPolicy is not affected by JobSuccessPolicy
Even after introducing the JobSuccessPolicy, all CronJob concurrentPolicies work as before
since the JobSuccessPolicy doesn't change the semantics of the existing Job `Complete` condition 
and the Job declares succeeded by a new condition, `SuccessCriteriaMet`.

Specifically, the CronJob with `Forbid` concurrentPolicy created Jobs based on Job's `Complete` condition as before.

> #### Status never switch from "successCriteriaMet" to "failed"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Status never switches from "SuccessCriteriaMet" to "Failed"
```

Author: Done.

	// Specified it must be immutable and works only for the Indexed jobs.
	// Once the job meets the successPolicy, the lingering pods are terminated. 
	//
	// This field is alpha-level. To use this field, you must enable the
	// `JobSuccessPolicy` feature gate (disable by default).
	// +optional
	// +listType=atomic
	SuccessPolicy *SuccessPolicy
}

// SuccessPolicy describes when a Job can be declared as succeeded based on the success of some indexes.
type SuccessPolicy struct {
	// Criteria represents the list of alternative criteria for declaring the jobs 
	// as successful before its completion. Once any of the criteria are met,
	// the "SuccessCriteriaMet" condition is added, and the lingering pods are removed.
	// The terminal state for such a job has the "Complete" condition.
	// Additionally, these criteria are evaluated in order; Once the job meets one of the criteria,
	// other criteria are ignored.
	//
	// +optional
	Criteria []SuccessPolicyCriterion
}

// SuccessPolicyCriteria describes a criterion for declaring a Job as succeeded.
// Each criterion must have at least one of the "succeededIndexes" or "succeededCount" specified.
type SuccessPolicyCriterion struct {

> 	// SuccessPolicyCriterion specifies the set of indexes 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
	// SucceededIndexes specifies the set of indexes 
```

Author: Done.

	// which need to be contained in the actual set of succeeded indexes for the job.

> 	// The list of indexes must come within 0 to ".spec.completions" and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	// The list of indexes must be within 0 to ".spec.completions-1" and
```

Author: This is a nice catch :)

Author: Done.

	// and is never evaluated at any time.
	// 
	// +optional
	SucceededIndexes *string

	// SucceededCount specifies the minimal required size of the actual set of the succeeded indexes
	// for the job. When SucceededCount is used along with SucceededIndexes, the check is 
	// constrained only to the set of indexes specified by SucceededIndexes.
	// When this field is null, this field doesn't default to any value
	// and is never evaluated at any time.
	// When specified it needs to be a positive integer.
	//
	// +optional
	SucceededCount *int
}
...

// These are valid conditions of a job.
const (
	// JobSuccessCriteriaMet means the job has been succeeded.
	JobSucceessCriteriaMet JobConditionType = "SuccessCriteriaMet"
	...
)
```

Moreover, we validate the following constraints for the `criteria`:
- whether the specified indexes in the `succeededIndexes` and
  the number of indexes in the `succeededCount` don't exceed the value of `completions`.
- whether `Indexed` is specified in the `completionMode` field.
- whether the size of `succeededIndexes` is under 64Ki.
- whether the `succeededIndexes` field has a valid format.
- whether the `succeededCount` field has an absolute number.

> - whether the criteria haven't changed.

Reviewer 2: are you saying that criteria will be immutable?

Author: Yes, that's right.

- whether the successPolicies meet the `succeededCount <= |succeededIndexes|`, 
where `|succeededIndexes|` means the number of indexes in the `succeededIndexes`. 

> In addition, when the `successPolicy` isn't nil, we validate the `criteria` isn't nil.

Reviewer 2: This shouldn't be necessary.

But I would validate that each element of criteria must have at least one of succeededIndexes or succeededCount.

Author: Removed

- `succeededIndexes`: the job-controller evaluates `.status.completedIndexes` to see if a set of indexes is there.
- `succeededCount`: the job-controller evaluates `.status.succeeded` to see if the value is `succeededCount` or more.

After that, the job-controller adds a `SuccessCriteriaMet` condition instead of a `Failed` condition to `.status.conditions`
and the job-controller terminates the lingering pods. At that time, `JobSuccessPolicy` is set to the `status.reason` field.

Note that when the job meets one of successPolicies, other successPolicies are ignored.

Finally, once all pods have terminated, the job-controller adds a `Complete` condition to `.status.conditions`.

If any successPolicy isn't set, the job-controller adds both a `SuccessCriteriaMet` and a `Complete` conditions to the Job
after the job finished.

### Transition of "status.conditions"

When the job with successPolicies is submitted, the job `status.conditions` transits in the following:
Note that the Job doesn't have an actual `Running` condition in the `status.conditions`.

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> Running
    Running --> Failed: Exceeded backoffLimit\n or Matched FailurePolicy

>     Failed --> [*]

Reviewer 2: What about FailureTarget? Today, when we get to FailureTarget, we wouldn't transition to Complete.

is that correct  @mimowo?

Author: That's right. IIUC, when the Job meets the FailurePoliy with FailJob action, the Job will transition to Failed. In others, the Job wouldn't transition to Failed.

Let me rephrase here.

Author: Done.

Reviewer 2: It doesn't transition to Failed directly. It first transitions to FailureTarget.
Only once all the other pods terminate, it transitions to Failed.

Author: That makes sense. Thak you for the clarifications!

Author: @alculquicondor @mimowo I updated this diagram. Please let me know if this is not correct.

Reviewer 5: Thanks for the diagram update, it mostly look good. 

I'm only surprised by:
`FailureTarget --> SuccessCriteriaMet: Matched SuccessPolicy`. 

I would expect that once `FailureTarget` is added, then `Failed` is the only possible fate, and `SuccessCriteriaMet` is not added, we just skip evaluating the success policy a this point. Similarly, when `SuccessCriteriaMet` is added, then the only possible fate is "Complete". So, the two conditions `FailureTarget` and `SuccessCriteriaMet` are "symmetric".

Author: > I would expect that once FailureTarget is added, then Failed is the only possible fate, and SuccessCriteriaMet is not added, we just skip evaluating the success policy a this point. Similarly, when SuccessCriteriaMet is added, then the only possible fate is "Complete". So, the two conditions FailureTarget and SuccessCriteriaMet are "symmetric".

@mimowo IIUC, the `FailureTarget` condition is added to the Job even though the matched failurePolicy has `action=Ignore`,  `action=FailIndex`, or `action=Count`, right? So, I think that when the job meets failurePolicy with those actions, that means that the job failed.

Author: `FailureTarget --> Failed: Exceeded backoffLimit\nor action=FailJob`

So, when the job meets the `FailureTarget` with `action=FailJob`, successPolicy isn't evaluated.

Reviewer 5: > @mimowo IIUC, the FailureTarget condition is added to the Job even though the matched failurePolicy has action=Ignore, action=FailIndex, or action=Count, right? 

`FailureTarget` is added when FailJob action is matched. It is used to await for all pods to terminate before setting `Failed: true`.

I'm sure how to read this transition: "FailureTarget --> SuccessCriteriaMet" in the diagram. 

Does it mean that we can have `FailureTarget: true`, then  `SuccessCriteriaMet: true`? I think this transition should be prohibited. Once FailureTarget: true we skip evaluation of success policy, don't we?

Author: > FailureTarget is added when FailJob action is matched. It is used to await for all pods to terminate before setting Failed: true.

@mimowo Oh, I see. It seems that my understanding is not correct. If so, we need to remove this transition, `FailureTarget --> SuccessCriteriaMet` as you said.

Author: @mimowo I updated the diagram here: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062/commits/5511faca093867e97cf629239b3a99a925268e7d

Thank you for pointing this out.

Reviewer 5: > > FailureTarget is added when FailJob action is matched. It is used to await for all pods to terminate before setting Failed: true.
>
> @mimowo Oh, I see. It seems that my understanding is not correct. 

Here is the code reference where we generate the condition when FailJob action is matched: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/controller/job/job_controller.go#L814-L817

Author: @mimowo One more quetion. Is this transition possible, `FailureTarget --> Failed`?
I'm wondering if this transition never happenes. It means that I'm wondering if the transition of `FailureTarget --> [*]` is correct.

Reviewer 5: > @mimowo I updated the diagram here: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/commit/5511faca093867e97cf629239b3a99a925268e7d

Thanks! lgtm

Author: > > > FailureTarget is added when FailJob action is matched. It is used to await for all pods to terminate before setting Failed: true.
> > 
> > 
> > @mimowo Oh, I see. It seems that my understanding is not correct.
> 
> Here is the code reference where we generate the condition when FailJob action is matched: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/controller/job/job_controller.go#L814-L817

Thank you for the code! It would be very helpful!

Author: @mimowo Aldo, could you check this comment?

> @mimowo One more quetion. Is this transition possible, FailureTarget --> Failed?
> I'm wondering if this transition never happenes. It means that I'm wondering if the transition of FailureTarget --> [*] is correct.

https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4062#discussion_r1481288697

Reviewer 5: I think `FailureTarget --> [*] ` isn't correct, we always transition `FailureTarget -> Failed`. Failed is the terminal state.

Author: > I think `FailureTarget --> [*] ` isn't correct, we always transition `FailureTarget -> Failed`. Failed is the terminal state.

It makes sense. The job-controller has only 2 terminal states, "Complete" and "Failed".
Thank you for letting me know :)

Reviewer 5: The diagram lgtm currently

    Complete --> [*]
```

It means that the job's `.status.conditions` follows the following rules:  

- The job could have both `SuccessCriteriaMet=true` and `Complete=true` conditions.
- The job can't have both `Failed=true` and `SuccessCriteriaMet=true` conditions.
- The job can't have both `Failed=true` and `Complete=true` conditions.

#### The situations where successPolicy conflicts other terminating policies

The successPolicy has potential conflicts with other terminating policies such as the [pod failure policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/job/pod-failure-policy/)
, backoffLimit, and [backoffLimitPerIndex](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#backoff-limit-per-index)
in the following situations:

- when the job meets the successPolicy and some pod failure policies with the `FailJob` action.
- when the job meets the successPolicy and the number of failed pods exceeds `backoffLimit`.
- when the job meets the successPolicy and the number of failed pods per indexes exceeds `backoffLimitPerIndex` in all indexes.

To avoid the above conflicts, terminating policies are evaluated the first before successPolicies.

> This means that the terminating policies are respected rather than the successPolicies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This means that the terminating policies are respected rather than the successPolicies,
if the Job doesn't have the `FailureTarget` or `SuccessCriteriaMet` conditions yet.
```

Author: Done.

The similar job conditions, `Complete` and `SuccessCriteriaMet`, are different in the following:

- `Complete` means that all pods completed, not failed.
- `SuccessCriteriaMet` means that the job meets at least one of successPolicies.

So, the job could have both conditions, `Complete` and `SuccessCriteriaMet`.

#### The CronJob concurrentPolicy is not affected by JobSuccessPolicy
Even after introducing the JobSuccessPolicy, all CronJob concurrentPolicies work as before
since the JobSuccessPolicy doesn't change the semantics of the existing Job `Complete` condition 
and the Job declares succeeded by a new condition, `SuccessCriteriaMet`.

Specifically, the CronJob with `Forbid` concurrentPolicy created Jobs based on Job's `Complete` condition as before.

#### Status never switches from "SuccessCriteriaMet" to "Failed"
Switching the status from `SuccessCriteriaMet` to `Failed` would bring the confusions to the systems,
which depends on the Job API.

So, the status can never switch from `SucessCriterionMet` to `Failed`.
Additionally, once the job has `SuccessCriteriaMet=true` condition, the job definitely ends with `Complete=true` condition

> even if the lingering pods could potentially meet the terminating policies.

Author: Done.

- whether the `succeededIndexes` field has a valid format.
- whether the `succeededCount` field has an absolute number.
- whether the criteria haven't changed.
- whether the successPolicies meet the `succeededCount <= |succeededIndexes|`, 
where `|succeededIndexes|` means the number of indexes in the `succeededIndexes`. 

### Evaluation

Every time the pod condition are updated, the job-controller evaluates the successPolicies following the rules in order:

- `succeededIndexes`: the job-controller evaluates `.status.completedIndexes` to see if a set of indexes is there.
- `succeededCount`: the job-controller evaluates `.status.succeeded` to see if the value is `succeededCount` or more.

After that, the job-controller adds a `SuccessCriteriaMet` condition instead of a `Failed` condition to `.status.conditions`
and the job-controller terminates the lingering pods. At that time, `JobSuccessPolicy` is set to the `status.reason` field.

Note that when the job meets one of successPolicies, other successPolicies are ignored.

Finally, once all pods have terminated, the job-controller adds a `Complete` condition to `.status.conditions`.

> If any successPolicy isn't set, the job-controller adds both a `SuccessCriteriaMet` and a `Complete` conditions to the Job

Author: Let me try to rephrase this.

> If any successPolicy isn't set, the job-controller adds both a `SuccessCriteriaMet` and a `Complete` conditions to the Job

Author: Done.

after the job finished.

### Transition of "status.conditions"

When the job with successPolicies is submitted, the job `status.conditions` transits in the following:
Note that the Job doesn't have an actual `Running` condition in the `status.conditions`.

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> Running
    Running --> Failed: Exceeded backoffLimit
    Running --> FailureTarget: Matched FailurePolicy with action=FailJob

>     FailureTarget --> Failed: Exceeded backoffLimit

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    FailureTarget --> Failed: all pods are terminated
```

Author: Done.

    Failed --> [*]
    Running --> SuccessCriteriaMet: Matched SuccessPolicy

>     SuccessCriteriaMet --> Complete: All pods were terminated by successPolicies

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    SuccessCriteriaMet --> Complete: All pods are terminated
```
nit: this sounds informal, maybe not needed. The pods are actually terminated by the Job controller, in reaction the success policy.

Author: That makes sense.

Author: Done.

- [ ] User-facing documentation has been created in [kubernetes/website], for publication to [kubernetes.io]
- [ ] Supporting documentation—e.g., additional design documents, links to mailing list discussions/SIG meetings, relevant PRs/issues, release notes

[kubernetes.io]: https://kubernetes.io/
[kubernetes/enhancements]: https://git.k8s.io/enhancements
[kubernetes/kubernetes]: https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes
[kubernetes/website]: https://git.k8s.io/website

## Summary

This KEP extends the Job API to allow setting conditions under which an Indexed Job can be declared as succeeded.

## Motivation

There are cases where a batch workload requires an indexed job that want to care 
only about leader indexes in determining the success or failure of a Job,
for example MPI and PyTorch etc. This is currently not possible because the indexed job 
is marked as Completed only if all indexes succeeded.

Some third-party frameworks have implemented success policy.

- [Kubeflow Training Operator](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/training)
- [Flux Operator](https://flux-framework.org/flux-operator/)
- [JobSet](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/jobset/)

### Goals

> - Allow to mark a job as a `Succeeded` according to a declared policy.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Allow to mark a job as succeeded according to a declared policy.
```
nit: Maybe the use of backquote suggests it is a API term, like condition, but the condition is actually called `Complete`

Author: Yes, that's right. Consistency is important.

Author: Done.

In addition, we want to terminate the lingering pods if the leader index (index=0) is succeeded
because the workers often don't have any ways to terminate themselves due to launching daemon processes like ssh-server.

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
    criteria:
    - succeededIndexes: "0"
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./sample"]
```

#### Story 2

As a simulation researcher/engineer for fluid dynamics/biochemistry.
I want to mark the job as successful and terminate the lingering pods
when the job meets the one of following conditions:

1. The case of the leader index (index=0) is succeeded
2. The case of some worker indexes (index=1+) are succeeded

Because succeeded leader index means that the whole simulation is succeeded,
and succeeded some worker indexes means that the minimum required value is satisfied.

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
    criteria:

>     - succeededCount: 1

Author: Yes, that's right.

>     - succeededCount: 1

Author: Done.

        - name: job-container
          image: job-image
          command: ["./sample"]
```

### Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)

#### No support JobSuccessPolicy for the NonIndexed Job

As I described in [Non-Goals](#non-goals), we don't support the SuccessPolicy for the job with `NonIndexed` mode.

#### Different between "complete" and "successCriteriaMet"
The similar job conditions, `Complete` and `SuccessCriteriaMet`, are different in the following:

- `Complete` means that all pods completed, not failed.
- `SuccessCriteriaMet` means that the job meets at least one of successPolicies.

So, the job could have both conditions, `Complete` and `SuccessCriteriaMet`.

#### The CronJob concurrentPolicy is not affected by JobSuccessPolicy
Even after introducing the JobSuccessPolicy, all CronJob concurrentPolicies work as before
since the JobSuccessPolicy doesn't change the semantics of the existing Job `Complete` condition 
and the Job declares succeeded by a new condition, `SuccessCriteriaMet`.

Specifically, the CronJob with `Forbid` concurrentPolicy created Jobs based on Job's `Complete` condition as before.

#### Status never switches from "SuccessCriteriaMet" to "Failed"

> Switching the status from `SuccessCriteriaMet` to "failed" would bring the confusions to the systems,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Switching the status from `SuccessCriteriaMet` to `Failed` would bring the confusions to the systems,
```
nit, for consistency

Author: Done.

which depends on the Job API.

> So, the status never switch `SucessCriterionMet` to `Failed` at any time.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
So, the status can never switch from `SucessCriterionMet` to `Failed`.
```
nit: the "never" already means that.

Author: Done.

	// which need to be contained in the actual set of succeeded indexes for the job.
	// The list of indexes must be within 0 to ".spec.completions-1" and
	// must not contain duplicates. At least one element is required. 
	// The indexes are represented as decimal integers
	// separated by commas. The numbers are listed in increasing order. Three or
	// more consecutive numbers are compressed and represented by the first and
	// last element of the series, separated by a hyphen.
	// For example, if the completed indexes are 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7, they are
	// represented as "1,3-5,7".
	// When this field is null, this field doesn't default to any value
	// and is never evaluated at any time.
	// 
	// +optional
	SucceededIndexes *string

	// SucceededCount specifies the minimal required size of the actual set of the succeeded indexes
	// for the job. When SucceededCount is used along with SucceededIndexes, the check is 
	// constrained only to the set of indexes specified by SucceededIndexes.
	// When this field is null, this field doesn't default to any value
	// and is never evaluated at any time.
	// When specified it needs to be a positive integer.
	//
	// +optional

> 	SucceededCount *int

Reviewer 3: Not sure if we allow ints in the API. I think they are usually int32 or int64 so we don't get different sizes APIs based on the architecture.

This is just a note for your implementation when you do the API review.

Author: Good point. It probably should use the same type as `completions`, which means using `*int32` might be better, but yes, we can come back here after API PR is reviewed.

#### GA

- No negative feedback.

### Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy

- Upgrade
  - If the feature gate is enabled, `JobSuccessPolicy` are allowed to use only.
  - If the feature gate is enabled without `JobSuccessPolicy`, 
  the default values will be applied to a job object.
  - Even if the feature gate is enabled, the Job controller doesn't update
  `.status.conditions` in already finished jobs.
- Downgrade
  - Previously configured values will be ignored, and the job will be marked
  as completed only when all indexes succeed.
  - the Job controller doesn't update `.status.conditions` in already finished jobs.

### Version Skew Strategy

The apiserver's version should be consistent with the kube-controller-manager version,
or this feature will not work.

This feature is limited to control plane.

Note that, the kube-apiserver can be in the N+1 skew version relative to the
kube-controller-manager as described [here](https://kubernetes.io/releases/version-skew-policy/#kube-controller-manager-kube-scheduler-and-cloud-controller-manager).

> In that case, the Job controller operates on the version of the Job object that

Author: SGTM
Thank you for the suggestions!

> In that case, the Job controller operates on the version of the Job object that

Author: Done.

The newly added field is optional and has to be explicitly set by the user to use this new feature.

Regarding the CronJob, please see more details in [#The CronJob concurrentPolicy is not affected by JobSuccessPolicy](#the-cronjob-concurrentpolicy-is-not-affected-by-jobsuccesspolicy).

###### Can the feature be disabled once it has been enabled (i.e. can we roll back the enablement)?

Yes, we can disable the `JobSuccessPolicy` feature gate.
When the feature is disabled, the job controller stop evaluating the successPolicy even if
the `.spec.successPolicy` is set.

###### What happens if we reenable the feature if it was previously rolled back?

The Job controller considers the `.spec.successPolicy` when it updates `.status.conditions`
only for running Jobs and don't update `.status.conditions` for already finished jobs.

###### Are there any tests for feature enablement/disablement?

No, we'll add them during alpha.

### Rollout, Upgrade and Rollback Planning

###### How can a rollout or rollback fail? Can it impact already running workloads?

Even if the kube-controller-manager is rolled out or rollback fail, already running workloads aren't any impact.

> The default behavior will be applied to running workloads.

Reviewer 11: This answer requires a bit more work, but that's not a blocker for alpha.

[For the future - you should try to describe how it can fail]

Author: Thank you for pointing this out!

I'd like to leave this work on after implementation since I think that we probably can find some issues by implementing tests.

###### What specific metrics should inform a rollback?

An increase in the `job_sync_duration_seconds` metrics can mean that finished jobs
are taking longer to evaluate.

The users should check whether the completed jobs have the appropriate condition,
specifically the reason.

###### Were upgrade and rollback tested? Was the upgrade->downgrade->upgrade path tested?

> No.

Reviewer 11: Should be done before promoting to beta - if you're filling it, let's switch to "TODO" or sth (or leave it empty for Alpha - same for other questions not necessary required now).

Author: You're right. I will replace `No` with `TODO`.

Author: Done.

  - `Completions` indicates a job is declared as succeeded because the job meets `spec.completions`.

###### How can someone using this feature know that it is working for their instance?

- [x] Job API .status
  - The Job controller will add a condition with `JobSuccessPolicy` reason to `conditions`.

###### What are the reasonable SLOs (Service Level Objectives) for the enhancement?

99% percentile over day for Job syncs is <= 15s for a client-side 50 QPS limit.

###### What are the SLIs (Service Level Indicators) an operator can use to determine the health of the service?

- [x] Metrics
  - Metric name: `job_sync_duration_seconds` (existing): can be used to see how much the
    feature enablement increases the time spent in the sync job
  - Components exposing the metric:

###### Are there any missing metrics that would be useful to have to improve observability of this feature?

No.

### Dependencies

###### Does this feature depend on any specific services running in the cluster?

No.

### Scalability

No.

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in any new API calls?

> No.

Reviewer 11: We can probably have additional patch to set the new status if we face the condition (which is absolutely ok, but maybe worth mentioning).

Author: Good point :)
Let me mention it here.

Author: Done.

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in introducing new API types?

No.

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in any new calls to the cloud provider?

No.

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in increasing size or count of the existing API objects?

Yes, it will increase the size of existing API objects only when the `.spec.successPolicy` is set.

- API type(s): Job
- Estimated increase in size: `.spec.successPolicy.criteria.succeededIndexes` field are impacted.
In the worst case, the size of `succeededIndexes` can be estimated about 64KiB (see [Risks and Mitigations](#risks-and-mitigations)).

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in increasing time taken by any operations covered by existing SLIs/SLOs?

No.

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in non-negligible increase of resource usage (CPU, RAM, disk, IO, ...) in any components?

> No.

Reviewer 11: I would say that more CPU is posible because computing if a given set of indexes completed (especially if there are many of them - approaching 64kB) may actually be non-negligible.
Thoughts?

Author: Great point!
Since `SuccessPolicy` uses compressed indexes in the `successPolicy.criteria[*].succeededIndexes`, the job controller needs more computing resources in the case of many indexes.

	SucceededCount *intstr.IntOrString
	...
}
```

### Match succeededIndexes using CEL

We can accept a set of required indexes represented by CEL in the `succeededIndexes` field. 
However, it is difficult to represent the set of indexes without regularity. 

```golang
// SuccessPolicyCriterion describes a Job can be succeeded based on succeeded indexes.
type SuccessPolicyCriterion struct {
	...
	// Specifies a set of required indexes using CEL.
	// For example, if the completed indexes are only the last index, they are
	// represented as (job.completions -1).
	//
	// +optional
	SucceededIndexesMatchExpression *string
	...
}
```

### Use JobSet instead of Indexes Job

The [JobSet](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/jobset) is a custom resource for managing a group of Job as a unit.

Some of the stories are better served using JobSet.
Specifically, cases that make assumptions about what an index represents could be mapped as jobs in JobSet,
with names representing the semantics of those different groups of pods.

However, both Job level and JobSet level successPolicies would be valuable
since there are some cases in which we want to launch a Job by a single podTemplate.

> <<[UNRESOLVED @tenzen-y: Do we need to make configurable actions? ]>>

Reviewer 3: I see a lot of unresolved sections here. I would probably remove these since these were alternatives considered. It looks a bit incomplete when reading the KEP from top-to-bottom.

Reviewer 3: this is a non blocking nit but its something that bothered me a little.

Author: Actually, we need to discuss these sections for the second alpha stage in the future.
If we decide that we don't have the second alpha stage and don't include these features in this enhancement, I think we can remove `<<UNRESOLVED>>`.

Reviewer 2: For the purpose of this iteration, these are not unresolved questions. We have concluded that they might be re-evaluated in a future version. You can mention this in the alpha/beta criteria, but you shouldn't leave the UNRESOLVED tags.

Author: I see. My understanding of the `<<UNRESOLVED>>` tag isn't correct.
Let me move `Future work` section.

```golang
// SuccessPolicyCriteria describes a criterion for declaring a Job as succeeded.
// Each criterion must have at least one of the "succeededIndexes" or "succeededCount" specified.
type SuccessPolicyCriterion struct {
	// SetSuccessCriteriaMetReason specifies the CamelCase reason for the "SuccessCriteriaMet" condition.
	// Once the job meets this criterion, the specified reason is set to the "status.reason".
	// The default value is "JobSuccessPolicy".
	//
	// +optional
	SetSuccessCriteriaMetReason *string
}
```

##### Set the suffix of the reason

```golang
// SuccessPolicyCriteria describes a criterion for declaring a Job as succeeded.
// Each criterion must have at least one of the "succeededIndexes" or "succeededCount" specified.
type SuccessPolicyCriterion struct {
	// SuccessCriteriaMetReasonSuffix specifies the CamelCase suffix of the reason for the "SuccessCriteriaMet" condition.
	// Once the job meets this criterion, "JobSuccessPolicy" and the specified suffix is combined with "As".
	// For example, if specified suffix is "LeaderSucceeded", it is represented as "JobSuccessPolicyAsLeaderSucceeded".
	//
	// +optional
	SuccessCriteriaMetReasonSuffix *string
}
```

> <</[UNRESOLVED]>>

Reviewer 3: Where is the beginning of this tag?

Author: This is for `<<[UNRESOLVED @tenzen-y: Do we need to have the configurable reason?]>>`.

I want to mark the job as successful and terminate the lingering pods
when the job meets the one of following conditions:

1. The case of the leader index (index=0) is succeeded
2. The case of some worker indexes (index=1+) are succeeded

Because succeeded leader index means that the whole simulation is succeeded,
and succeeded some worker indexes means that the minimum required value is satisfied.

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  parallelism: 10
  completions: 10
  completionMode: Indexed
  successPolicy:
    criteria:
    - succeededIndexes: 0
    - succeededCount: 5
      succeededIndexes: "1-9"
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
        - name: job-container
          image: job-image
          command: ["./sample"]
```

### Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)

#### No support JobSuccessPolicy for the NonIndexed Job

As I described in [Non-Goals](#non-goals), we don't support the SuccessPolicy for the job with `NonIndexed` mode.

#### Difference between "complete" and "successCriteriaMet"
The similar job conditions, `Complete` and `SuccessCriteriaMet`, are different in the following ways:

> - `Complete` means that all pods completed, not failed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `Complete` means that, if defined, the success criteria was satisfied and all pods are now completed.
```

Author: @alculquicondor  When the successPolicy isn't specified, Complete doesn't mean the success criteria were satisfied.

So, I think that the current definition would be better.

Reviewer 2: How about this?
```suggestion
- `Complete` means that all pods completed and either all of them were successful or the Job already had `SuccessCriteriaMet=true`.
```

Author: Done.

  - Feature gate name: JobSuccessPolicy
  - Components depending on the feature gate:
    - kube-apiserver
    - kube-controller-manager

###### Does enabling the feature change any default behavior?

No, the default behavior of a job and cronJob stays the same.
The newly added field is optional and has to be explicitly set by the user to use this new feature.

Regarding the CronJob, please see more details in [#The CronJob concurrentPolicy is not affected by JobSuccessPolicy](#the-cronjob-concurrentpolicy-is-not-affected-by-jobsuccesspolicy).

###### Can the feature be disabled once it has been enabled (i.e. can we roll back the enablement)?

Yes, we can disable the `JobSuccessPolicy` feature gate.
When the feature is disabled, the job controller stop evaluating the successPolicy even if
the `.spec.successPolicy` is set.

###### What happens if we reenable the feature if it was previously rolled back?

The Job controller considers the `.spec.successPolicy` when it updates `.status.conditions`
only for running Jobs and don't update `.status.conditions` for already finished jobs.

###### Are there any tests for feature enablement/disablement?

> TODO

Reviewer 11: The comment from the template is relevant for this case:
```

Additionally, for features that are introducing a new API field, unit tests that
are exercising the `switch` of feature gate itself (what happens if I disable a
feature gate after having objects written with the new field) are also critical.
You can take a look at one potential example of such test in:
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/97058/files#diff-7826f7adbc1996a05ab52e3f5f02429e94b68ce6bce0dc534d1be636154fded3R246-R282
-->
```

Can you add here that for alpha you will at least add the appropriate strategy test here for newly added API fields?

Author: That makes sense.

Author: Done.
